
=== PAGE 1 ===
11th Edition | 2025
Diabetes Atlas
589
people worldwide
have diabetes
million


=== PAGE 2 ===
IDF Diabetes Atlas
11th edition | 2025


=== PAGE 3 ===
Table of Contents
1	
Acknowledgements
2	
Forewords
6	
Summary
8	
Introduction
11	
References
12	
Chapter 1: What is diabetes
	16	
1.1 Type 1 diabetes
	17	
1.2 Type 2 diabetes
	18	
1.3 Impaired glucose tolerance and impaired fasting glucose
	18	
1.4 Diagnostic criteria for diabetes
	19	
1.5 Hyperglycaemia in pregnancy
	21	
1.6 Other types of diabetes
	22	
References
26	
Chapter 2: Methods
	28	
2.1 Interpretation of estimates 
	28	
2.2 Gathering and selecting data sources
	30	
2.3 Estimating diabetes prevalence and projections for the future
	30	
2.4 Extrapolating data
 30 
2.5 Estimating confidence intervals
	31	
2.6 Standardisation of estimates
	32	
2.7 Estimating undiagnosed diabetes prevalence
	33	
2.8 Estimating the prevalence of intermediate states of hyperglycaemia
	34	
2.9 Estimating the prevalence of hyperglycaemia in pregnancy
	35	
2.10 Estimating diabetes-related mortality
	35	
2.11 Estimating the economic impact of diabetes
	36	
2.12 Estimating diabetes prevalence for type 1 diabetes across all age groups
	38	
References
40	
Chapter 3: The global picture of diabetes
	42	
3.1 Diabetes prevalence in 2024 and projection to 2050 (20–79 years) 
	48	
3.2 Diabetes prevalence in older adults in 2024 and projection to 2050 
	50	
3.3 Undiagnosed diabetes
	53	
3.4 Intermediate states of hyperglycaemia
	57	
3.5 Hyperglycaemia in pregnancy
	59	
3.6 Diabetes-related mortality
	60	
3.7 The economic impact of diabetes
	68	
3.8 Type 1 diabetes estimates in children and adults 
	71	
References
IV  |  IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org


=== PAGE 4 ===
72	
Chapter 4: Diabetes by region
	74	
Africa
	76	
Europe
	78	
Middle-East and North Africa
	80	
North America and Caribbean
	82	
South and Central America
	84	
South-East Asia
 86 
Western Pacific
88	
Chapter 5: Diabetes complications
	90	
5.1 Type 2 diabetes and the risk of cardiovascular diseases
	92	
5.2 Diabetes and the risk of dementia
	95	
5.3 Diabetes-related eye disease
	98	
References
101	
Appendices
	102	
Country summary table: estimates for 2025
	118	
Abbreviations and acronyms
	119	
Glossary
 124 
List of tables, maps and figures
IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org  |  V 


=== PAGE 5 ===
© International Diabetes Federation, 2025
No part of this publication may be reproduced, 
translated or transmitted in any form or by any  
means without the prior written permission of  
the International Diabetes Federation. 
Requests can be submitted at:  
diabetesatlas.org/copyright-requests/
First edition, 2000 
Second edition, 2003 
Third edition, 2006 
Fourth edition, 2009 
Fifth edition, 2011 
Sixth edition, 2013 
Seventh edition, 2015 
Eighth edition, 2017 
Ninth edition, 2019
Tenth edition, 2021
Online version of the IDF Diabetes Atlas available  
at diabetesatlas.org
Data
The list of studies on which estimates in the  
IDF Diabetes Atlas are based can be found  
at diabetesatlas.org 
ISBN: 978-2-930229-96-6
Unless indicated otherwise, all photographs in this 
edition of the IDF Diabetes Atlas are property of the 
International Diabetes Federation.
Technical editing and design by  
Optima: optimadesign.co.uk
The boundaries and names shown, and the 
designations used in this report do not imply the 
expression of any opinion whatsoever on the part of 
the International Diabetes Federation concerning the 
legal status of any country, territory, city or area or of 
its authorities, or concerning the delimitation of its 
frontiers or boundaries. The International Diabetes 
Federation uses the country and territory official 
names as listed by the United Nations.
This edition of the IDF Diabetes Atlas is dedicated to 
Professor Akhtar Hussain, who served as President of 
the International Diabetes Federation from 2022­–2024 
and untimely passed away on 1 July 2024.
VI  |  IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org


=== PAGE 6 ===
Acknowledgements 
IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition Committee
Co-Chairs
Dianna J Magliano (Co-Chair),  
Edward J Boyko (Co-Chair).
Special Interest Group (SIG) leads:
Mohammed K Ali, Kaarin Anstey, Gillian Booth,  
Bruce B. Duncan, Anthony J. Hanley, William H. 
Herman, Elbert Huang, Graham D. Ogle, David R. 
Owens, Meda E Pavkov, Naveed Sattar, Elizabeth 
Selvin, David Simmons, Alan Sinclair, Matilde 
Monteiro-Soares, Rebecca L. Thomas, Sarah Wild.
Special Interest Group (SIG) members:
Ahmed H. Abdelhafiz, Ranjit Mohan Anjana,  
Elizabeth Barr, Abdul Basit, Srikanth Bellary,  
Dominika Bhatia, Theresa Boyer, Isabelle Bourdel-
Marchasson, Louise Maple Brown, Bertrand Cariou, 
Weihan Cao, Carlos Celis-Morales,, Thora Chai, Qinyu 
Chen, Benjamin Chidiac, Tawanda Chivese, Faraja 
S. Chiwanga, Tali Cukierman-Yaffe, Dana Dabelea, 
Natalie Daya Malek, Shutong Du, Daisy Duan, Justin 
B. Echouffo Tcheugui, Aoife M Egan, Emeka Ejimogu, 
Ranmalee Eramudugolla, Michael Fang, Courtney 
Fischer, David Flood, Laercio Joel Franco, Peggy Gao, 
Jen Manne-Goehler, Gabriel A Gregory, Zijing Guo, 
Marion Guerrero-Wyss, Sarega Gurudas, Jessica 
Harding, Aveni Haynes, Lucas Crescenti Abdalla Saad 
Helal, Jiahuan Helen He, Cheri Hotu, Jiaqi Hu, Hamidul 
Huque, Jincy Immanuel, Ayuba Issaka, Steven James, 
Alicia J. Jenkins, Tripti Joshi, Emily Okeefe, Dimitrios 
Kazantzis, Shihchen Kuo, Rodrigo M. Carillo-Larco, 
Michael Laxy, Naomi Levitt, Xia Li, Andrea On Yan Luk, 
Ronald Ma, David M. Maahs Stefania Maggi, Jayanthi 
Maniam, Maja E.Marcus, Jean Claude Mbanya, Natalie 
McGlynn, Yoshihisa Miyamoto, Deepa Mohan, Hiliary 
Monteith, Jedidiah Morton, Ayesha A. Motala, Ezekiel 
Musa, Valentina Naumovski, Katherine Ogurtsova, 
Richard A. Oram, Bige Ozkan, Emily Papadimos, 
Odette Pearson, Catherine Pihoker, Justin Porter, 
R. Guha Pradeepa, Berhe Sahle, Forough Sajjadi, 
Ambady Ramachandran, Thomas Robinson, Mary 
Rooney, Julian Sacre, Jithin Sam Varghese, Jacqueline 
Seiglie, Baiju Shah, Jonathan Shaw, Sobha Sivaprasad, 
Eugene Sobngwi, Jannet Svensson, Robyn Tapp, Felix 
Teufel, Sathish Thirunavukkarasu, Brittney Tiffault, 
Dunya Tomic, João Vasco Santos, Madhuri Venigalla, 
Siddharth Venkatraman, Amelia Wallace, Caroline 
Wang, Fei Wang, Hui Wang, Donald Warne, Mahmoud 
Werfalli, Hannah Wesley, Xilin Yang, Lili Yuen, Farhan 
Zaidi, Ping Zhang, Rui Zhang, Wei Zhang, Henry Zhao,  
Lidan Zheng, Zhiguang Zhou.
Editorial team
Dianna J. Magliano, Edward J. Boyko, Irini Genitsaridi, 
Lorenzo Piemonte, Phil Riley, Paraskevi Salpea.
Supporters
The IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th edition has been 
produced thanks to unrestricted educational  
grants from 
IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org  |  1 


=== PAGE 7 ===
This edition of the IDF Diabetes Atlas was launched 
at our World Diabetes Congress 2025 in Bangkok. 
The launch coincides with the 75th anniversary of the 
year we were officially founded and 25 years since 
we introduced the Diabetes Atlas in 2000. In 1950, 
diabetes representative organisations from  
16 countries came together to share experiences  
and collaborate to create strategies that would 
support the response to a condition already identified 
as a growing, but at that time much-hidden, threat to 
global health. Since then, our federation of national 
and transnational members has grown to include, at 
the time of writing, more than 240 diabetes-focussed 
organisations in 161 countries and territories.
From the outset, we looked to embrace the complete 
spectrum of the diabetes community: the researchers 
pushing the envelope of science to advance diabetes 
care, the medical doctors and allied healthcare 
professionals who provide the care, and, of course,  
the people with diabetes at the very heart of care.
From our genesis, we sought to listen to and voice 
the concerns of the entire community and improve 
diabetes care worldwide, not just in high-income 
economies but also (indeed, particularly) in those 
countries where resources are limited and health 
inequities high. Our first President back in 1950 was 
Dr R D Lawrence, a British diabetologist and one of the 
co-founders of our organisation. He was a researcher 
famed for his role in advancing diabetes care and 
advocacy worldwide, and he was a person living  
with type 1 diabetes.
Lawrence was extremely fortunate to have been one 
of the first recipients of therapeutic insulin shortly 
after it was first discovered in 1921 at the University of 
Toronto, Canada by Dr. Frederick Banting and Charles 
Best, with the assistance of James Collip and under the 
supervision of Dr. John Macleod. It saved Lawrence’s 
life. He would have been keenly aware of the huge 
inequities in access to diabetes care that existed 
between individuals, countries and regions. 
One wonders what these diabetes luminaries might 
think to see that disparities in access to diabetes care 
and prevention remain deeply unequal, with many still 
facing significant barriers to diagnosis, treatment,  
and management. Today, despite being a global 
health crisis and despite the greater attention the 
condition receives, we must acknowledge that for 
many, diabetes care remains a privilege rather  
than a right. 
Three-quarters of a century after our foundation,  
we must, perhaps more than ever, be united in  
our global endeavour to transform access to care  
for people affected by diabetes and its complications, 
and drive awareness of the serious risk posed to 
individuals, communities and economies. The IDF 
Diabetes Atlas remains a highly valuable tool to 
support our advocacy to demand policy change.  
I encourage you all to take advantage of the  
resources we have made available online at 
diabetesatlas.org and use the content to support  
your efforts and campaigns.
Much has been achieved thanks to the tireless 
enthusiasm and commitment of volunteers and 
professionals across the world in service of a common 
mission – to improve the lives of people with diabetes 
and prevent diabetes in those at risk. Much, however, 
remains to be done to tackle the systemic inequities 
that disproportionately affect communities because 
of socioeconomic status, race, ethnicity, geography, 
gender, disability, and other social determinants of 
health. The Diabetes Atlas helps provide the context 
and the evidence to drive change.
We are living a defining decade for diabetes.  
At the beginning of the decade, the centenary  
of the discovery of insulin in 2021, was a catalytic 
moment that saw the launch of the World Health 
Organization’s Global Diabetes Compact - a unique 
global initiative aimed at ensuring access to equitable, 
comprehensive, affordable and quality care for 
everyone living with diabetes and addressing risk 
factors to reduce the growing cases of type 2 diabetes 
- and a Resolution on strengthening the prevention 
and control of diabetes, which places the condition 
at the core of the NCD response. In 2022, Member 
States agreed on a set of diabetes coverage targets, 
aiming to reduce the risk of diabetes and moving 
towards a world where everyone diagnosed with 
Foreword by the IDF President
2  |  IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org


=== PAGE 8 ===
diabetes has access to the care they need. We are only 
five years away from 2030, the deadline to meet the 
targets. Unfortunately, we appear woefully off-track 
to achieve them. The time is now to take advantage 
of the context, join forces and request governments 
to honour their commitments and invest in diabetes 
prevention and care. 
My sincere hope is that this 11th edition of the IDF 
Diabetes Atlas will help the global diabetes community 
advocate for intensified action to diagnose diabetes 
early and provide access to quality care to delay or 
prevent complications, to improve care for all people 
living with diabetes and to delay or prevent type 2 
diabetes in people at risk.
Every edition of the Diabetes Atlas includes more 
quality data from more countries, thereby providing 
an increasingly accurate description of the global 
diabetes landscape. I give my sincere gratitude to the 
many international experts who have contributed to 
the production of this edition and to the Co-Chairs, 
Professors Dianna J Magliano and Edward J Boyko,  
for their leadership.
Regretfully, I must end on a sad note: Had it not been 
for his untimely death while on active duty for the 
Federation in July 2024, my predecessor, Professor 
Aktar Hussain, would have written this foreword. A 
friend, inspiration and mentor, Professor Hussain was 
a passionate advocate for people living with diabetes, 
particularly those in low and middle-income countries. 
On behalf of the International Diabetes Federation, 
I dedicate this 11th Edition of the IDF Diabetes Atlas 
to his memory. We can honour him by using this 
publication to drive change. 
Professor Peter Schwarz
President 2024–2027 
International Diabetes Federation
IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org  |  3 


=== PAGE 9 ===
It gives us great pleasure to present to you the 11th 
Edition of the IDF Diabetes Atlas. 
The IDF Atlas has now been in production for over two 
decades and delivers valuable and realistic summary 
data on the state of diabetes for each nation and the 
world population. Initially designed as a data resource 
for individual countries and to advance the interests of 
global health, it has since evolved and demonstrated 
itself to be a valuable advocacy tool as well. 
Our new data confirm that diabetes prevalence is still 
increasing globally and provide strong evidence that 
should promote action and initiatives to improve the 
lives of people with diabetes.
This is our second edition as co-chairs and this 
experience has instilled in us a deep knowledge 
of the issues and challenges of estimating the 
impact of diabetes in every country and some 
populous territories. As with any project intent on 
utilising available data to make scientific estimates, 
a methodology must be selected to achieve the 
objectives. Choices must be made regarding what 
type of data to include, for example, clinic-based 
versus community/population-based. The time 
period over which the data were collected must 
be specified. Another consideration is whether to 
include all available data meeting eligibility criteria 
or only data of the highest quality. An important 
consideration is the definition of diabetes, whether 
it is based on self-reported diagnosis or laboratory 
testing, and if by laboratory testing, which test or tests 
should be used-plasma or capillary fasting glucose, 
Haemoglobin A1c, 1 hour or 2 hour oral glucose 
tolerance tests. Given the many choices, it is not 
surprising that the other groups who have published 
on global diabetes prevalence – the Global Burden of 
Disease (GBD) and the NCD-RisC Collaboration – have 
used different methods, resulting in a considerable 
span for the estimate of numbers of persons globally 
with diabetes, ranging from approximately 500 to 
800 million in 2021-2024. Along this range, the GBD 
and IDF estimates fall close to 500 million, while the 
NCD-RisC estimate is at the upper end of the range. 
A critical examination of differing methodologies 
is needed to better inform healthcare planning 
regarding the magnitude of the diabetes problem.
In this edition, 62 out of 215 countries or territories 
(29%) lack in-country data. While this is an 
improvement on previous editions, it is still grossly 
inadequate, and data from Africa is still worryingly 
sparse. It should be noted that many older studies 
cannot be used to predict diabetes prevalence given 
that the epidemic has continued to rise since the 
first edition of the IDF Diabetes Atlas, such that older 
research will almost certainly underestimate current 
conditions. We have, therefore, elected not to use 
studies conducted before 2005 in the estimations. 
We have also instituted some new aspects of data 
inclusion and have elected to exclusively use regular 
national surveys, like the National Health and 
Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES) and the 
Korean National Health and Nutrition Examination 
Survey (KHANES) in the countries where these were 
conducted. Further, technological advances now 
allow access to the whole-of-population data of 
diabetes prevalence by way of national registries 
and administrative sources. National compulsory 
health insurance organisations also provide excellent 
unbiased estimates. Notably, these sources only 
capture known diabetes, but estimates are corrected 
with recent estimates of undiagnosed diabetes to 
derive a credible unbiased estimate of total diabetes 
prevalence for those nations. We can expect that 
the future expansion of diabetes registry data will 
enhance national estimates. WHO STEPS studies still 
have a strong place in the Atlas. This year, we have 
included over 60 WHO STEPS surveys in our estimates. 
Foreword by the IDF Diabetes  
Atlas Chairs
4  |  IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org


=== PAGE 10 ===
It has been the practice for the Atlas team to 
review the methodology for each edition to identify 
opportunities to reduce bias and increase precision.  
In this edition we enlisted statistical experts to 
scrutinise our methods and assumptions and 
recommend improvements where needed. Therefore, 
we caution readers to take care when comparing 
our new estimates to older editions, as differences 
between editions may represent actual changes or an 
alteration in methodology. In particular, we have taken 
a new approach to the estimation of deaths attributed 
to diabetes by taking into account the lower risk of 
dying due to diabetes among those with undiagnosed 
diabetes. We were unable to disentangle mortality in 
the diagnosed and undiagnosed in the past, but the 
availability of new data from our collaborators and 
from recently completed larger studies have allowed 
us to do this in a more credible and accurate way. We 
have also used updated urbanisation ratios from WHO 
and applied a new method to generate confidence 
intervals around our diabetes estimates. We are 
excited about these improvements.
As in previous editions, we have presented  
forecasts of diabetes prevalence. In this edition,  
we present forecasts to the year 2050. Projection  
of future diabetes prevalence is always challenging, 
and it is important to note that we only take into 
account changes in age and sex and urban to rural 
distribution. We deliberately do not consider any other 
changes which would increase or decrease diabetes 
incidence because we believe this guesswork would 
likely be inaccurate.
Lastly, we want to stress the importance of continued 
surveillance of diabetes prevalence and encourage 
well-designed and carefully conducted national 
diabetes prevalence (and incidence) studies to 
permit better monitoring of the impact of diabetes 
presently and allow a better foundation from which 
to make forecasts. We also want to reiterate the 
importance of continued diabetes awareness and 
prevention activities to help stem the rising tide of 
diabetes. Controlling diabetes is indeed a team sport. 
Addressing the rising trend will require a concerted 
effort from people with diabetes, governments, non-
government organisations focused on diabetes, and 
the medical community. We hope this Edition of the 
Atlas will support this endeavour.
Professor Dianna Magliano 
Chair, IDF Diabetes Atlas 
Committee 
Professor Edward Boyko 
Chair, IDF Diabetes Atlas 
Committee 
IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org  |  5 


=== PAGE 11 ===
Summary
Map 1 Number of people with diabetes worldwide and per IDF Region, in 2024–2050 (20–79 years)
2050
2024
45%
increase
World
852.5 Million
588.7 Million
2050
2024
92%
increase
Middle-East and North Africa (MENA)
162.6 Million
84.7 Million
2050
2024
45%
increase
South and Central America (SACA)
51.5 Million
35.4 Million
2050
2024
18%
increase
Western Pacific (WP)
253.8 Million
215.4 Million
2050
2024
10%
increase
Europe (EUR)
72.4 Million
65.6 Million
2050
2024
21%
increase
North America and Caribbean (NAC)
68.1 Million
56.2 Million
2050
2024
73%
increase
South-East Asia (SEA)
184.5 Million
106.9 Million
2050
2024
142%
increase
Africa (AFR)
59.5 Million
24.6 Million
6  |  IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org


=== PAGE 12 ===
The IDF Diabetes Atlas is an authoritative source 
of evidence and a valuable advocacy tool on 
the prevalence of diabetes, related morbidity 
and mortality, as well as diabetes-related health 
expenditures at global, regional and national 
levels. The IDF Diabetes Atlas also introduces 
readers to the pathophysiology of diabetes, its 
classification and its diagnostic criteria. It presents 
the global picture of diabetes for different 
types of diabetes and populations and provides 
information on specific actions that can be taken, 
such as proven measures to prevent type 2 
diabetes and the best management of all forms 
of diabetes to avoid subsequent complications. 
The credibility of diabetes estimates relies on the 
rigorous methods used for the selection and analysis 
of high-quality data sources. For every edition, 
the IDF Diabetes Atlas Committee – composed of 
thematic experts from each of the seven IDF Regions 
– reviews the methods underlying the IDF Diabetes 
Atlas estimates and projections and available data 
sources. The methods have been explained in detail 
by Guariguata et al.1 The majority of the data sources 
used are population-based studies that have been 
published in peer-reviewed journals. In this edition, 
we have also included data from national diabetes 
registries. With the establishment of electronic 
records and national registries becoming more 
common, we anticipate more data like these will be 
featured in the future. Furthermore, information 
from national health surveys, including some of 
the World Health Organization's (WHO) STEPwise 
approach to NCD risk factor Surveillance (STEPS), 
are used where they meet inclusion criteria.
Findings of the current 11th edition confirm that 
diabetes is one of the fastest-growing global health 
challenges of the 21st century (see Map 1). In 2024, 
it is estimated that 589 million adults aged 20-79 
were living with diabetes. Over 9.5 million people 
had type 1 diabetes in 2024, of whom 1.9 million 
children and adolescents under the age of 20. 
The total number of people living with diabetes 
is projected to reach 853 million by 2050. 
There is a large and growing population at high risk 
of developing diabetes. In 2024, 635 million people 
were estimated to have impaired glucose tolerance 
and 488 million were estimated to have impaired 
fasting glucose. It was also estimated that over 3.4 
million people aged 20–79 died from diabetes-related 
causes in 2024. Direct health expenditures due to 
diabetes surpassed one trillion USD for the first time 
and will continue to rise over the coming years. 
This IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th edition also 
shows that hyperglycaemia in pregnancy (HIP) 
affects approximately one in five pregnancies. 
Another cause for alarm is the consistently high 
percentage (43%) of people with undiagnosed 
diabetes, which is overwhelmingly type 2. This 
highlights the urgent need to improve the ability 
to diagnose people with diabetes, many of whom 
are unaware they have the condition, and provide 
appropriate and care as early as possible. 
Diabetes is a major health 
issue that has reached 
alarming levels. The 11th 
edition confirms that 
diabetes is one of the 
fastest-growing global 
health emergencies of  
the 21st century.
Tinotenda Dzikiti, Zimbabwe - Living with type 1 diabetes
IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org  |  7 


=== PAGE 13 ===
Introduction
Since its first edition, published in 2000, the IDF 
Diabetes Atlas has provided robust estimates of 
the prevalence of diabetes by country, IDF Region 
and globally. Since its second edition, published in 
2003, it has also projected these estimates into the 
future. In doing so, it has served as an advocacy 
tool, not only for the quantification of the impact 
of diabetes worldwide, but also for reducing that 
impact through measures aimed at improving the 
long-term consequences of all types of diabetes, as 
well as the primary prevention of type 2 diabetes. 
In 2014, the WHO/NCD-RisC estimate of 422 million 
people with diabetes3, was very close to the IDF 
estimate of 415 million people with diabetes in 20154. 
However, the recent WHO/NCD-RisC publication 
estimated that 828 million people aged 18 years or 
older had diabetes in 20225, considerably more than 
estimates provided in this IDF Diabetes Atlas (589 
million) for 2024 and the Global Burden of Diseases 
Study (GBD) figure of 485 million for ages 20-79 in 
20216. As mentioned above, multiple decisions are 
required to estimate worldwide diabetes prevalence, 
including a selection of representative studies, 
the diabetes case definition, and the means of 
generating estimates for countries lacking data. We 
wish to highlight two decisions that may have falsely 
elevated the WHO/NCD-RisC 2022 estimate. NCD-RisC 
defines diabetes based on fasting plasma glucose 
(FPG)≥7mmol/l, HbA1c ≥6.5%, or use of medication 
to help regulate blood glucose. First, IDF does not 
widely use HbA1c due to its limited global availability 
and its spuriously high readings with concomitant 
iron deficiency,2 common in many lower-income 
countries. Second, this elevation in cases may result 
from another WHO/NCD-RisC estimation method, 
which scales up diabetes prevalence for countries 
with FPG but lacking HbA1c in their surveys.7,8 
The diabetes impact is steadily growing to 
alarming levels. The IDF Diabetes Atlas, under the 
guidance of a committee of experts from all IDF 
regions, remains dedicated to providing the most 
accurate possible data based on the available 
epidemiological sources and methods of analysis. 
The IDF Diabetes Atlas is a valuable research and advocacy 
tool that provides essential information on the estimated 
and projected global prevalence of diabetes.
The IDF Diabetes Atlas draws attention to the growing 
impact of diabetes in all countries and regions.
The estimates presented in the IDF Diabetes Atlas  
are based on the best quality data available at the  
time of analysis.
Key messages:
8  |  IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org


=== PAGE 14 ===
Our vision for the IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th edition
The 11th edition of the IDF Diabetes Atlas has 
interrelated objectives: 
  	
●
Describe the current diabetes landscape  
and deliver the latest diabetes impact data.
  	
●
Support global advocacy to improve the lives 
of people with diabetes and those at risk. 
  	
●
Encourage discussions on the latest methodology 
to monitor the diabetes pandemic. 
Multiple changes have been made to the 
epidemiological methods used in preparing the 
11th edition of the IDF Diabetes Atlas. These are 
summarised in Chapter 2. New data has been 
accessed, and some topics have been introduced 
for the first time (see ‘What’s new in the 11th 
edition?’ below). However, the basis on which 
estimates and projections have been calculated in 
this edition remain essentially the same as those 
used in the previous edition. Thus, continuity 
has been maintained and, with certain caveats, 
conclusions about time trends in the global 
progress of diabetes can be made with reasonable 
confidence except where otherwise indicated. 
What’s new in the 11th edition? 
A whole chapter is dedicated to up-to-date 
epidemiological data on the most common 
diabetes-related complications (see Chapter 5). 
The impact of diabetes in older adults (>65 years old) 
has also been included in this edition (see Chapter 3). 
The current Diabetes Atlas presents projections 
for 2050 compared to the projections for 
2030 and 2045 presented in previous editions. 
This change provides a better description of 
the impact of diabetes by mid-century. 
For the first time, diabetes-related mortality is 
presented separately for people with diagnosed 
and undiagnosed diabetes (see Chapter 3). 
Increased recognition of prediabetes has allowed 
us to report recent data on its prevalence. To better 
describe the total impact of the intermediate 
states of hyperglycaemia, prediabetes based on 
HbA1c-defined American Diabetes Association 
(ADA) criteria (HbA1c 5.7-6.4%) is included, 
along with the impaired glucose tolerance and 
impaired fasting glucose (see Chapter 3). 
The importance of the advocacy objective of the  
IDF Diabetes Atlas and related materials is given 
attention. For this purpose, a new user-friendly 
data portal has been developed and launched 
on the Diabetes Atlas website. This ensures 
easy access, downloadable files, and ability to 
stratify all the Atlas data per indicator, per region 
and per country. The website also provides 
downloadable resources such as global and 
regional fact sheets and a slide presentation.
Figure 1 Estimates and projections of the global prevalence of diabetes in the 20–79 year age 
group in millions (IDF Diabetes Atlas editions 1st to 11th).
151
194
366
382
415
425
463
537
589
246
285
2000
2003
2007
2009
2011 2013
2015
2017
2019
2021
2024
Number of people with diabetes in millions
2025
2030
2035
2040
2045
2050
2006
380
2021
643
2013
592
2015
642
2021
783
2024
853
2003
333
2019
578
2011
552
2019
700
2017
629
2009
438
Projection in millions
Year projection made
2003
Estimates of the global prevalence of diabetes 
in the 20–79 year age group (millions)
Projections of the global prevalence of diabetes 
in the 20–79 year age group (millions)
IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org  |  9 


=== PAGE 15 ===
How to read this edition of the IDF Diabetes Atlas 
Although it might be tempting to focus solely on 
the figures for a given country or IDF Region, other 
factors should be considered when interpreting the 
IDF Diabetes Atlas estimates and any differences from 
those given in the previous edition. Possible reasons 
to account for significant differences between the 
10th edition (2021) and 11th edition (2024) figures are: 
  	
●
The inclusion of new studies for some countries. 
  	
●
The inclusion of national diabetes registry 
data with modification. Data on diagnosed 
diabetes from these sources were 
adjusted to include both diagnosed and 
an estimate of undiagnosed diabetes. 
  	
●
The exclusion of specific WHO STEPS surveys 
included in the previous edition, as a result of 
concerns about their validity (see Chapter 2). 
  	
●
While we may include several studies which 
all met inclusion criteria for one country, in 
cases where multiple serial surveys were 
available, only the latest survey was included. 
  	
●
The exclusion of studies conducted before 
2005. Since older studies probably report 
a lower prevalence, the exclusion of these 
studies may result in a higher estimate of 
prevalence than in previous editions. 
  	
●
Updating data sources with better quality  
studies may result in a lower prevalence than  
reports from previous years with less robust  
methodology. Any change in prevalence  
within individual countries could be due,  
in part, to these methodological changes.
Limitations 
  	
●
The definition of diabetes used in the IDF 
Diabetes Atlas is based on an epidemiological 
definition which requires abnormal blood 
glucose levels to be detected in only one test 
compared to a clinical diagnosis of diabetes, 
which requires abnormal blood glucose levels to 
be detected on two separate tests in someone 
with diabetes symptoms such as excessive 
thirst (polydipsia) or urination (polyuria). 
  	
●
While we attempted to include only population-
based representative studies, all studies 
have limitations and biases which require 
careful interpretation. In some countries and 
territories where territory-wide or population-
based registers were included, the estimate of 
prevalence was adjusted, taking into consideration 
the proportion of people with undiagnosed 
diabetes in that country or territory. 
  	
●
When a country lacked any internal data, diabetes 
prevalence was extrapolated from a country with 
similar economy, language and demography. Such 
extrapolations may represent a source of error. 
  	
●
The urban and rural classifications are based on 
how the individual data sources defined urban and 
rural, rather than defined by the IDF analysis team. 
10  |  IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org


=== PAGE 16 ===
References
1.	
Guariguata, L., Whiting, D., Weil, C. & Unwin, N. 
The International Diabetes Federation diabetes 
atlas methodology for estimating global and 
national prevalence of diabetes in adults.  
Diabetes Res Clin Pract 94, 322–332 (2011).
2.	
IDF Diabetes Atlas scientific papers and posters.
https://diabetesatlas.org/scientific-papers- 
and-posters/
3.	
NCD Risk Factor Collaboration (NCD-RisC). 
Worldwide trends in diabetes since 1980: a pooled 
analysis of 751 population-based studies with 4.4 
million participants. Lancet 387, 1513–1530 (2016).
4.	
Ogurtsova, K. et al. IDF Diabetes Atlas: Global 
estimates for the prevalence of diabetes for 2015 
and 2040. Diabetes Res Clin Pract 128, 40–50 (2017).
5.	
NCD Risk Factor Collaboration (NCD-RisC). 
Worldwide trends in diabetes prevalence and 
treatment from 1990 to 2022: a pooled analysis  
of 1108 population-representative studies with 141 
million participants. Lancet 404, 2077–2093 (2024).
6.	
GBD 2021 Diabetes Collaborators. Global, regional, 
and national burden of diabetes from 1990 to 
2021, with projections of prevalence to 2050: 
a systematic analysis for the Global Burden of 
Disease Study 2021. Lancet 402, 203–234 (2023).
7.	
Anjana, R. M. et al. Metabolic non-communicable 
disease health report of India: the ICMR-INDIAB 
national cross-sectional study (ICMR-INDIAB-17). 
Lancet Diabetes Endocrinol 11, 474–489 (2023).
8.	
Madhu, S. V., Raj, A., Gupta, S., Giri, S. & Rusia, 
U. Effect of iron deficiency anemia and iron 
supplementation on HbA1c levels - Implications for 
diagnosis of prediabetes and diabetes mellitus in 
Asian Indians. Clin Chim Acta 468, 225–229 (2017).
IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org  |  11 


=== PAGE 17 ===
What is diabetes?
16	
1.1 Type 1 diabetes
17	
1.2 Type 2 diabetes
18	
1.3 Impaired glucose tolerance and impaired fasting glucose
18	
1.4 Diagnostic criteria for diabetes
19	
1.5 Hyperglycaemia in pregnancy
21	
1.6 Other types of diabetes
22	
References
1
Robin Fein, USA - Living with type 2 diabetes
12  |  IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org


=== PAGE 18 ===
Key messages:
Diabetes is a serious, chronic condition that occurs 
when the body cannot produce enough insulin or 
cannot effectively use the insulin it does produce, 
leading to high levels of glucose (hyperglycaemia).
Type 1 diabetes is the major type of diabetes in 
children and young adults but can occur at any age. 
People with type 1 diabetes require insulin to survive.
Type 2 diabetes accounts for the vast majority  
(over 90%) of diabetes cases worldwide.
Type 2 diabetes can be prevented or delayed, and 
there is accumulating evidence that remission of  
type 2 diabetes may be possible in the early  
stages of the condition. 
‘Prediabetes’ or ‘Intermediate Hyperglycaemia’ are 
terms used to describe impaired glucose tolerance 
and/or impaired fasting glucose. People with 
prediabetes are at higher risk of developing type  
2 diabetes, cardiovascular disease and stroke.
Women with gestational diabetes (GDM) are at 
increased risk of birth complications. Regular 
prenatal care is essential to monitor and address 
potential complications promptly.
IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org  |  13 


=== PAGE 19 ===
Diabetes is a serious, long-term (or ‘chronic”) condition that occurs when glucose levels in a person’s blood 
rise because the body cannot produce enough or any insulin or cannot effectively use the insulin it produces. 
Insulin allows glucose from the bloodstream to enter 
the body’s cells, where it is converted into energy or 
stored. Insulin is also essential for the metabolism of 
protein and fat. A lack of insulin, or the inability of cells 
to respond to it, leads to high levels of blood glucose 
(hyperglycaemia), which is the clinical indicator of 
diabetes. Another important measurement of blood 
glucose (glycaemia) is Haemoglobin A1c (HbA1c), 
which gives an indication of glucose concentration 
in the blood over a period of 90 days prior to the 
blood test. Both direct measurement of glucose 
concentration in plasma or HbA1c may be used to 
diagnose diabetes. The threshold glycaemia levels for 
the diagnosis of diabetes can be found in Figure 1.1.
A high blood glucose if left untreated over the long 
term, can cause damage to many of the body’s 
organs, leading to disabling and life-threatening 
health complications such as cardiovascular diseases 
(CVD), nerve damage (neuropathy), kidney damage 
(nephropathy), lower-limb amputation, and eye 
disease mainly affecting the retina (retinopathy), 
resulting in loss of vision and even blindness. There 
is also increased recognition of other complications 
associated with diabetes such as cognitive decline, 
liver disease, cancer and frailty. If near-normal levels 
of blood glucose can be maintained, these serious 
complications can be delayed or prevented.
14  |  IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org


=== PAGE 20 ===
Figure 1.1 Diagnostic criteria for diabetes.1
Impaired Glucose  
Tolerance
Should be diagnosed if  
BOTH of the following 
criteria are met
(126 mg/dL)
mmol/L
< 7.0
(140-199 mg/dL)
mmol/L
7.8 and < 11.1
Impaired Fasting 
Glucose (IFG)
Should be diagnosed if  
THE FIRST OR BOTH of 
the following are met
(110 - 125 mg/dL)
mmol/L
6.1–6.9
(140 mg/dL)
mmol/L
< 7.8
Fasting plasma 
glucose
Two-hour  
plasma glucose
after a 75g oral glucose 
load (oral glucose  
tolerance test (OGTT))
Random plasma 
glucose
in the presence of symptoms  
of hyperglycaemia
HbA1c
Diabetes
Should be diagnosed 
if ONE OR MORE of the  
following criteria are met
(126 mg/dL)
mmol/L
7.0
(200 mg/dL)
mmol/L
11.1
(200 mg/dL)
mmol/L
11.1
(equivalent to 6.5%)
mmol/L
48
or
and
and if measured
or
or
Note: Fasting is defined as no caloric intake for at least eight hours. 
The HbA1c test should be performed in a laboratory using a method that is National Glycohaemoglobin Certification 
Program (NGSP) certified and standardised to the Diabetes Control and Complications Trial assay. 
The two-hour postprandial plasma glucose test should be performed using a glucose load containing the equivalent  
of 75-g anhydrous glucose dissolved in water. 
In the absence of symptoms of hyperglycaemia, two abnormal tests are required for the diagnosis of diabetes.
The American Diabetes Association (ADA) (2) recommends diagnosing “prediabetes” with a fasting plasma glucose 
between 5.6 and 6.9 mmol/L (100mg/dL to 125mg/dL: impaired fasting glucose), a 2-h plasma glucose ≥7.8 and 
<11.1 mmol/L (140–200 mg/dl: impaired glucose tolerance) or HbA1c values between 39 and 47 mmol/mol (5.7–6.4%).2
IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org  |  15 


=== PAGE 21 ===
1.1 Type 1 diabetes
Type 1 diabetes is caused by an autoimmune process 
in which the body’s immune system attacks the 
insulin-producing beta-cells of the pancreas, resulting 
in insulin deficiency.3 Although the cause(s) of type 
1 diabetes remains unknown, it is thought to be 
the result of a complex interplay between multiple 
genetic and environmental factors.2 Stages are now 
recognised in the onset of type 1 diabetes: Stage 1 
represents autoimmunity with normoglycaemia, stage 
2 reflects progression to asymptomatic dysglycaemia, 
and stage 3 is a clinically overt disease requiring 
initiation of insulin treatment.4 The condition can 
develop at any age, although the onset of stage 3 is 
most frequent in children and young adults. Type 1 
diabetes is one of the most common chronic diseases 
in childhood but can happen at any age. 
The incidence of type 1 diabetes varies around 
the world, with some regions having much higher 
incidences than others.5–8 Incidence has been 
increasing in the great majority of countries studied, 
although there is evidence that this increase is stable 
or tailing off in some high-income countries. The 
reasons for this are unclear but the rapid increase over 
time is most likely due to environmental changes.5–8
Clinical (stage 3) type 1 diabetes is diagnosed by an 
elevated blood glucose concentration (Figure 1.1) in 
the presence of some or, rarely, all the symptoms 
listed in Figure 1.2. However, diagnosing the type of 
diabetes is sometimes difficult, and additional testing 
may be required to distinguish between type 1, type 2, 
and rarer forms of monogenic diabetes.9,10
The typical symptoms of type 1 diabetes are listed 
in Figure 1.2. The classic clinical picture of excessive 
thirst (polydipsia), frequent urination (polyuria) and 
weight loss may, however, not be present and the 
diagnosis delayed or even missed entirely.
Even in countries with universal health coverage 
(UHC), diagnosis of type 1 diabetes may be delayed 
until the first hospital admission for diabetic 
ketoacidosis (DKA), sometimes with fatal results. 
A recent study of DKA rates at diagnosis of type 1 
diabetes in 13 high-income countries showed a pooled 
rate for 2006–2016 of 29.9%.11 Prevalence of DKA at 
diagnosis of type 1 diabetes, ranged from 19.5% to 
43.8%, and increased over time in three countries 
and decreased in one. This situation has prompted 
campaigns to increase awareness of type 1 diabetes 
among parents, school teachers and healthcare 
professionals.12 The latter includes advocacy of ‘on-the-
spot’ blood glucose measurement in an unwell child 
with no obvious diagnosis. In less-resourced countries, 
the frequency of misdiagnosis and consequent death 
from DKA at the onset of type 1 diabetes is not known, 
but is likely to be very substantial.13 
Following clinical diagnosis, people with type 1 
diabetes need daily insulin injections to keep their 
blood glucose level within an appropriate range. 
Without insulin replacement therapy, they would 
not survive. However, with daily insulin treatment, 
regular blood or interstitial fluid glucose monitoring, 
education and support, they can live healthy lives and 
delay or prevent many of the complications associated 
with diabetes.
Figure 1.2 The typical symptoms of type 1 diabetes
Excessive thirst
Sudden weight Loss
Frequent urination 
or bedwetting
Lack of energy 
or fatigue
Constant hunger
Blurred vision
Diabetic  
ketoacidosis
16  |  IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org


=== PAGE 22 ===
Type 2 diabetes is the most 
common type of diabetes, 
accounting for over 90% 
of all diabetes worldwide.
Living with type 1 diabetes remains a challenge for 
a child and the whole family, even in countries with 
access to multiple daily injections or an insulin pump, 
glucose monitoring, structured diabetes education 
(including insulin adjustments, physical activity and 
a healthy diet) and expert medical care. Besides the 
acute complications of hypoglycaemia (abnormally 
low blood glucose) and DKA, suboptimal glycaemic 
control may lead to poor growth and the early onset 
of circulatory (or ‘vascular’) complications.14 Optimal 
care is now recognised to be the use of an automated 
insulin delivery system that combines an insulin 
pump and a continuous glucose monitor, but this is 
an expensive approach which, as yet, is only widely 
available in some high-income countries.
In many countries, especially in economically 
disadvantaged families, access to insulin and self-care 
tools, including structured diabetes education, can  
be limited.15 This may lead to serious acute and 
chronic complications which can result in early  
death or severe disability.16
1.2 Type 2 diabetes
Type 2 diabetes is the most common type of diabetes, 
accounting for over 90% of all diabetes worldwide. It 
is currently the 8th leading cause of disease burden17 
globally and estimated to become the second leading 
cause by 2050.18 In type 2 diabetes, the inability of 
the body’s cells to respond fully to insulin is termed 
insulin resistance. The presence of insulin resistance 
prompts an increase in insulin production, which, over 
time, may result in inadequate insulin production as 
pancreatic beta cells fail to keep up with demand. 
Type 2 diabetes may have symptoms similar to those 
of type 1 diabetes, but the onset is typically much less 
dramatic and often completely asymptomatic. The 
lack of symptoms makes the exact time of the onset 
of type 2 diabetes difficult or impossible to determine. 
As a result, there is often a long period before the 
diabetes is diagnosed. At any given time, as many as 
one-third to one-half of people with type 2 diabetes in 
the population may be undiagnosed. If the diagnosis 
is delayed for a prolonged time, complications may 
develop.19,20 Many are diagnosed because they already 
have one or more of the complications associated with 
the condition.
The causes of type 2 diabetes are not completely 
understood, but there is a strong link with excess 
body weight, higher age, ethnicity and a family history 
of diabetes. Contributors to type 2 diabetes risk are 
thought to include multi-gene predisposition and 
environmental triggers.
The cornerstone of type 2 diabetes management 
is promoting a lifestyle that includes a healthy diet, 
regular physical activity, smoking cessation and 
maintenance of healthy body weight. If changes to 
lifestyle are not sufficient to control blood glucose 
levels, oral medication is usually initiated, with 
metformin as the first-line medication.
If treatment with a single medication is not sufficient, 
a range of combination therapy options are also 
available. These include sulphonylureas, alpha 
glucosidase inhibitors, thiazolidinediones, dipeptidyl 
peptidase 4 (DPP-4) inhibitors, glucagon-like peptide  
1 receptor (GLP-1R) gastric inhibitory peptide  
(GIP) agonists, and sodium-glucose co-transporter  
2 inhibitors. 
Heather Koga, Zimbabwe - Living with type 2 diabetes
IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org  |  17 


=== PAGE 23 ===
Insulin injections may be necessary to control 
hyperglycaemia to recommended levels if non-insulin 
medications do not help people with type 2 diabetes 
to achieve glycaemic control. 
Beyond controlling blood glucose levels, it is critically 
important to manage blood pressure (BP) and 
blood cholesterol (LDL-c) levels and assess control 
of these risk factors on a regular basis (at least 
annually). Regular screening for the development 
of early diabetes-related complications, such as 
kidney disease, retinopathy, neuropathy, peripheral 
artery disease and foot ulceration, helps prevent the 
development and progression of these complications. 
With regular check-ups and effective lifestyle 
management – along with medication as needed and 
support in the form of diabetes education – people 
with type 2 diabetes can lead long and healthy lives.
Globally, the prevalence of type 2 diabetes is high 
and rising across all regions. This rise is driven 
by population ageing, economic development 
and increasing urbanisation – leading to greater 
exposure to type 2 diabetes risk factors including 
more sedentary lifestyles, greater consumption of 
sugar-sweetened beverages, processed and red meat, 
unrefined grains, and other unhealthy foods linked 
to obesity, and greater exposure to air pollution.21 
However, the beneficial results of early detection and 
more effective treatment are helping people with type 
2 diabetes to live longer, which also contributes to the 
rise in prevalence.
The prevalence of type 2 diabetes has increased 
notably in adults under 4022 and has also become  
a concern in children and young people due to  
the increasing prevalence of obesity in childhood  
and adolescence.23
The prevalence of type 2 diabetes varies by race and 
ethnicity, as reported by the IDF Diabetes Atlas.24–26
1.3 Impaired glucose tolerance and 
impaired fasting glucose
Impaired glucose tolerance (IGT) and impaired 
fasting glucose (IFG) are conditions of blood 
glucose levels above the normal range and below 
the threshold recommended for diagnosis of 
diabetes (see Figure 1.1). The terms ‘prediabetes’, 
‘dysglycaemia’, ‘borderline diabetes’ and ‘intermediate 
hyperglycaemia’ are often used interchangeably.27 
IGT and IFG are associated with a heightened risk 
of the future development of type 2 diabetes28–31 
and cardiovascular disease.30,32–35 The detection of 
intermediate hyperglycaemia provides a target 
population for interventions.36,37
Progression from IGT or IFG to type 2 diabetes 
depends on the degree of hyperglycaemia and 
other risk factors, particularly age and excess body 
weight.37,38 The absolute risk for this progression 
depends dramatically on individual characteristics 
such as age and BMI.
1.4 Diagnostic criteria for diabetes
Most guidelines use the standard diagnostic criteria 
proposed by IDF and the World Health Organization 
(WHO) Figure 1.1. The footnote in Figure 1.1 mentions 
the American Diabetes Association (ADA) inclusion of 
HbA1c as part of the diagnostic criteria of diabetes 
and prediabetes. WHO supports the use of HbA1c 
≥6.5% for diabetes diagnosis but not for intermediate 
hyperglycaemia, partly on the grounds that quality-
assured HbA1c measurement is not available on a 
global scale.27
Currently, IDF and WHO recommend the use of the 
75-gram oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) with 
measurement of both fasting and two-hour plasma 
glucose to detect IGT, IFG and diabetes. However, 
there is literature favouring the use of the one-hour 
75-gram OGTT, which may be a more sensitive method 
of identifying intermediate hyperglycaemia.39
For type 2 diabetes, if a single random plasma glucose 
concentration is ≥ 11.1 mmol/l in the presence of  
symptoms such as polyuria, polydipsia, and 
unexplained weight loss, the diagnosis can  
be made without a second abnormal measurement.
18  |  IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org


=== PAGE 24 ===
1.5 Hyperglycaemia in pregnancy
Classification
According to WHO and the International Federation of 
Gynaecology and Obstetrics (FIGO), hyperglycaemia 
in pregnancy (HIP) can be classified as either pre-
gestational diabetes, gestational diabetes (GDM) 
or diabetes in pregnancy (DIP).40,41 Pre-gestational 
diabetes includes women with known type 1, type 2 or 
rarer forms of diabetes before pregnancy. GDM may 
occur at any time during the antenatal period and is 
not expected to persist after the child is born.42 DIP 
applies to pregnant women with hyperglycaemia who 
were first diagnosed during pregnancy and meet WHO 
criteria of diabetes in women who are not pregnant. 
DIP is best detected during the first trimester.43 While 
screening for DIP, other women with lesser degrees of 
hyperglycaemia are often detected early in pregnancy 
and there is now randomised control trial evidence 
that such women and their babies can benefit from 
early treatment.44–46 It has been estimated that most 
(75%–90%) cases of HIP are GDM.47
Pre-existing type 2 diabetes in pregnancy is a growing 
challenge48 and the management of type 1 diabetes in 
pregnancy is increasingly supported by the use of new 
technology (e.g. continuous glucose monitoring and 
assisted insulin delivery).
Screening and diagnosis of GDM
Overt symptoms of hyperglycaemia during pregnancy 
are rare and may be difficult to distinguish from 
normal pregnancy symptoms. As a result, an OGTT is 
recommended for screening for GDM for all women 
between the 24th and 28th week of pregnancy, but 
should be conducted earlier in pregnancy for women 
at high-risk.49
The diagnostic criteria for GDM vary and remain 
controversial, complicating the comparison of 
research data. There has been a move towards the 
diagnostic criteria advocated by the International 
Association of the Diabetes and Pregnancy Study 
Groups (IADPSG)/WHO50,51 which has resulted in a 
general increase in the overall prevalence of GDM.52 
Typically, an OGTT is performed by measuring the 
plasma glucose concentration while fasting and 
one and two hours after ingesting 75 grams of 
glucose. For diagnosing GDM, the criteria currently 
recommended across the world are summarised in 
Table 1.1. These criteria are under review with some 
countries starting to move to the Canadian Diabetes 
Association (CDA) criteria, alongside early screening 
for GDM (e.g., Belgium).53 Consideration of the use  
of an early HbA1c to rule out GDM is also under  
active investigation.54
Table 1.1 Diagnostic criteria in studies used for estimating hyperglycaemia in pregnancy.55
Note: ADA = American Diabetes Association; NDDG = National Diabetes Data Group; ADIPS = Australasian Diabetes in Pregnancy Society;  
CDA = Canadian Diabetes Association; DIPSI = Diabetes in Pregnancy Society of India; WHO = World Health Organization;  
IADPSG = International Association of the Diabetes and Pregnancy Study Groups; NICE = National Institute for Clinical Excellence  
* after 50g glucose challenge test-if positive, uses 100g glucose load, at least two need to be positive
Criteria
Fasting
1-hour
2-hour
3-hour
mg/dL        mmol/L
mg/dL            mmol/L
mg/dL            mmol/L
mg/dL        mmol/L
NDDG (USA)*
105
5.9
190
10.6
165
9.2
145
8.1
Carpenter Coustan 
(USA)*
95
5.3
180
10.0
155
8.6
140
7.8
CDA
95
5.3
191
10.6
160
9.0
-
-
WHO 1985
140
7.8
-
-
140
7.8
-
-
WHO 1999
126
7.0
-
-
140
7.8
-
-
IADPSG/ 
ADA WHO/FIGO
92
5.1
180
10
153
8.5
-
-
(DIPSI non-fasting)
-
-
-
-
-
7.8
-
-
NICE (UK)
-
5.6
-
-
-
7.8
-
-
IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org  |  19 


=== PAGE 25 ===
Besides those women with hyperglycaemia early in 
pregnancy, GDM arises in women with insufficient 
insulin secretory capacity to overcome the diminished 
action of insulin (insulin resistance) due to hormone 
production by the placenta as the pregnancy 
progresses40 Risk factors for GDM include older age, 
overweight and obesity, previous GDM, excessive 
weight gain during pregnancy, a family history of 
diabetes, polycystic ovary syndrome, habitual smoking 
and a history of stillbirth or giving birth to an infant 
with a congenital abnormality. GDM is more common 
in some ethnic groups.
GDM: a life course condition
GDM is increasingly seen as a reflection of an 
underlying metabolic state predisposing to both type 
2 diabetes and cardiovascular disease (CVD), although 
postpartum testing may initially be normal.56 As a 
consequence, pregnant women with hyperglycaemia 
are at higher risk of developing GDM in subsequent 
pregnancies. In addition, the relative risk of developing 
type 2 diabetes is particularly high at 3–6 years after 
GDM and can occur under 40 years of age. The risks 
remain markedly elevated thereafter.52 Considering 
the high risk of early-onset type 2 diabetes and the 
fact that prior GDM increases the risk of CVD, with 
or without type 2 diabetes, a lifestyle intervention to 
reduce risk should be started within three years after 
the pregnancy to achieve the maximum benefit for 
the prevention of diabetes.52,57 Babies born to mothers 
with GDM also have a higher lifetime risk of obesity 
and developing type 2 diabetes.58
Erum Ghafoor, Pakistan - Living with type 2 diabetes
20  |  IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org


=== PAGE 26 ===
1.6 Other types of diabetes
The recently published WHO report on the classification 
of diabetes59 lists a number of ‘other specific types’ of 
diabetes, including monogenic diabetes and what was 
once termed ‘secondary diabetes’.
Monogenic diabetes, as the name implies, results from 
a single gene rather than the contribution of multiple 
genes and environmental factors, as seen in type 1 
and type 2 diabetes. Monogenic diabetes is much less 
common and represents 1.5–2% of all cases, though 
this may well be an underestimate as it is often 
misdiagnosed as either type 1 or type 2 diabetes.60
These monogenic forms present a broad spectrum, 
from neonatal diabetes (sometimes called ‘monogenic 
diabetes of infancy’), maturity onset diabetes of the 
young (MODY) and rare diabetes associated syndromic 
diseases.61 Although rare, these can help provide 
insight into diabetes pathogenesis.62
From a clinical perspective, the exact diagnosis of the 
monogenic forms of diabetes is important because, 
in some instances, therapy can be tailored to the 
specific genetic defect.60 Further distinction between 
the 14 different sub-types of MODY leads not only 
to differences in clinical management but different 
predictions of complication risk. In recent years, with 
the accumulation of genome-wide association studies, 
an increasing number of monogenic forms of diabetes 
are being discovered.10,61,62 Thus the true prevalence of 
these types may be underestimated. 
Diabetes can also arise as a consequence of other 
conditions. These other specific types of diabetes 
are listed below, according to the most recent WHO 
diabetes classification.59
Figure 1.3. Other specific types of diabetes.59
Diabetes caused by diseases of  
the pancreas, such as pancreatitis,  
trauma, infection, pancreatic cancer  
and pancreatectomy
Diabetes due to endocrine disorders  
that cause excess secretion of  
hormones that antagonise insulin  
(e.g. Cushing’s syndrome)
Drug and chemical-induced diabetes  
from drugs that disrupt insulin secretion  
or insulin action
Infection-related diabetes that is  
caused by viral infection associated  
with beta cell destruction
Uncommon specific forms of  
immune-mediated diabetes (e.g.  
immunological disorders other than  
those that cause type 1 diabetes)
Other genetic syndromes sometime  
associated with diabetes (i.e. Prader- 
Willi syndrome, Down’s syndrome,  
Friedreich’s ataxia)
Management of hyperglycaemia in pregnancy
Women with hyperglycaemia detected during 
pregnancy are at greater risk of adverse pregnancy 
outcomes. These include high blood pressure 
(including pre-eclampsia) and a large baby for 
gestational age (termed ‘macrosomia’), which can 
make a normal birth difficult and hazardous, with 
the baby more prone to fractures and nerve damage. 
Identification of hyperglycaemia in pregnancy, 
combined with optimal management of blood 
glucose during pregnancy can reduce these risks. 
Women of childbearing age who are known to have 
diabetes prior to pregnancy should receive advice 
before conception, higher dose folic acid treatment, 
a medication review, intensive diabetes management 
and a planned approach to pregnancy.
All women who have HIP – be it GDM, previously 
undiagnosed DIP or existing and known diabetes 
– require optimal antenatal care and appropriate 
assistance with postnatal management. Women  
with hyperglycaemia during pregnancy may be  
able to control their blood glucose levels through  
a healthy diet, weight management, moderate 
exercise and blood glucose monitoring. Interaction 
with healthcare professionals is important to support 
self-management and to identify when medical  
(e.g. prescription of insulin and/or oral medications)  
or obstetric intervention is needed.
IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org  |  21 


=== PAGE 27 ===
References
1.	
IDF Clinical Practice Recommendations for 
Managing Type 2 Diabetes in Primary Care.  
Preprint at https://www.idf.org/e-library/
guidelines/128-idf-clinical-practice-
recommendations-for-managing-type-2- 
diabetes-in-primary-care.html (2019).
2.	
American Diabetes Association Professional 
Practice Committee. 2. Diagnosis and 
Classification of Diabetes: Standards of Care in 
Diabetes-2024. Diabetes Care 47, S20–S42 (2024).
3.	
DiMeglio, L. A., Evans-Molina, C. & Oram, R. A.  
Type 1 diabetes. Lancet 391, 2449–2462 (2018).
4.	
Insel, R. A. et al. Staging presymptomatic type 
1 diabetes: a scientific statement of JDRF, the 
Endocrine Society, and the American Diabetes 
Association. Diabetes Care 38, 1964–1974 (2015).
5.	
Mayer-Davis, E. J. et al. Incidence Trends of Type  
1 and Type 2 Diabetes among Youths, 2002-2012.  
N Engl J Med 376, 1419–1429 (2017).
6.	
Mayer-Davis, E. J. et al. ISPAD Clinical Practice 
Consensus Guidelines 2018: Definition, 
epidemiology, and classification of diabetes  
in children and adolescents. Pediatr Diabetes  
19 Suppl 27, 7–19 (2018).
7.	
Ogle, G. D. et al. Global estimates of incidence 
of type 1 diabetes in children and adolescents: 
Results from the International Diabetes 
Federation Atlas, 10th edition. Diabetes Res Clin 
Pract 183, 109083 (2022).
8.	
Tuomilehto, J., Ogle, G. D., Lund-Blix, N. A. & Stene, 
L. C. Update on Worldwide Trends in Occurrence 
of Childhood Type 1 Diabetes in 2020. Pediatr 
Endocrinol Rev 17, 198–209 (2020).
9.	
Greeley, S. A. W. et al. ISPAD Clinical Practice 
Consensus Guidelines 2022: The diagnosis and 
management of monogenic diabetes in children 
and adolescents. Pediatr Diabetes 23,  
1188–1211 (2022).
10.	 Flannick, J., Johansson, S. & Njølstad, P. R.  
Common and rare forms of diabetes mellitus: 
towards a continuum of diabetes subtypes.  
Nat Rev Endocrinol 12, 394–406 (2016).
11.	 Cherubini, V. et al. Temporal trends in diabetic 
ketoacidosis at diagnosis of paediatric type 1 
diabetes between 2006 and 2016: results from  
13 countries in three continents. Diabetologia  
63, 1530–1541 (2020).
12.	 Deylami, R., Townson, J., Mann, M. & Gregory, J. 
W. Systematic review of publicity interventions 
to increase awareness amongst healthcare 
professionals and the public to promote earlier 
diagnosis of type 1 diabetes in children and young 
people. Pediatr Diabetes 19, 566–573 (2018).
13.	 Ogle, G. D., Middlehurst, A. C. & Silink, M. The IDF 
Life for a Child Program Index of diabetes care  
for children and youth. Pediatr Diabetes 17,  
374–384 (2016).
14.	 Gregg, E. W. et al. Changes in diabetes-related 
complications in the United States, 1990-2010.  
N Engl J Med 370, 1514–1523 (2014).
15.	 Ogle, G. D., von Oettingen, J. E., Middlehurst, A. C., 
Hanas, R. & Orchard, T. J. Levels of type 1 diabetes 
care in children and adolescents for countries at 
varying resource levels. Pediatr Diabetes 20,  
93–98 (2019).
16.	 Gregory, G. A. et al. Global incidence, prevalence, 
and mortality of type 1 diabetes in 2021 with 
projection to 2040: a modelling study. Lancet 
Diabetes Endocrinol 10, 741–760 (2022).
17.	 GBD Compare: Institute for Health Metrics 
and Evaluation (IHME). GBD Compare Data 
Visualization. Seattle, WA: IHME, University of 
Washington, 2024.
18.	 Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation (IHME). 
GBD Foresight Visualization. Seattle, WA: IHME, 
University of Washington, 2024. Available from 
https://vizhub.healthdata.org/gbd-foresight 
(link is external).
19.	 Gregg, E. W. et al. Changes in diabetes-related 
complications in the United States, 1990-2010.  
N. Engl. J. Med. 370, 1514–1523 (2014).
20.	 King, P., Peacock, I. & Donnelly, R. The UK 
prospective diabetes study (UKPDS): clinical and 
therapeutic implications for type 2 diabetes.  
Br J Clin Pharmacol 48, 643–648 (1999).
21.	 Bellou, V., Belbasis, L., Tzoulaki, I. & Evangelou, 
E. Risk factors for type 2 diabetes mellitus: An 
exposure-wide umbrella review of meta-analyses. 
PLoS One 13, e0194127 (2018).
22.	 Magliano, D. J. et al. Young-onset type 2 diabetes 
mellitus - implications for morbidity and mortality. 
Nat Rev Endocrinol 16, 321–331 (2020).
22  |  IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org


=== PAGE 28 ===
23.	 Wu, H. et al. Worldwide estimates of incidence 
of type 2 diabetes in children and adolescents in 
2021. Diabetes Res Clin Pract 185, 109785 (2022).
24.	 Mayer-Davis, E. J. et al. Incidence Trends of Type 1 
and Type 2 Diabetes among Youths, 2002-2012.  
N. Engl. J. Med. 376, 1419–1429 (2017).
25.	 Urakami, T. et al. Changes in annual incidence  
of school children with type 2 diabetes in the 
Tokyo Metropolitan Area during 1975-2015. 
Pediatr Diabetes 19, 1385–1392 (2018).
26.	 IDF Atlas Report 2022. Diabetes among  
Indigenous Peoples.
27.	 World Health Organization IDF. Definition and 
diagnosis of diabetes mellitus and intermediate 
hyperglycaemia : report of a WHO/IDF 
consultation [Internet]. Geneva: World Health 
Organization; 2006. Available from: http://www.
who.int/iris/handle/10665/43588.
28.	 Richter, B., Hemmingsen, B., Metzendorf, 
M.-I. & Takwoingi, Y. Development of type 2 
diabetes mellitus in people with intermediate 
hyperglycaemia. Cochrane Database Syst Rev 10, 
CD012661 (2018).
29.	 Tabák, A. G., Herder, C., Rathmann, W., Brunner, E. 
J. & Kivimäki, M. Prediabetes: a high-risk state for 
diabetes development. Lancet 379,  
2279–2290 (2012).
30.	 Twigg, S. M. et al. Prediabetes: a position 
statement from the Australian Diabetes Society 
and Australian Diabetes Educators Association. 
Med J Aust 186, 461–465 (2007).
31.	 Schmidt, M. I. et al. Intermediate hyperglycaemia 
to predict progression to type 2 diabetes  
(ELSA-Brasil): an occupational cohort study  
in Brazil. Lancet Diabetes Endocrinol 7,  
267–277 (2019).
32.	 Huang, Y., Cai, X., Mai, W., Li, M. & Hu, Y. 
Association between prediabetes and risk of 
cardiovascular disease and all cause mortality: 
systematic review and meta-analysis. BMJ 355, 
i5953 (2016).
33.	 Yeboah, J., Bertoni, A. G., Herrington, D. M., Post, 
W. S. & Burke, G. L. Impaired fasting glucose 
and the risk of incident diabetes mellitus and 
cardiovascular events in an adult population: 
MESA (Multi-Ethnic Study of Atherosclerosis).  
J Am Coll Cardiol 58, 140–146 (2011).
34.	 Cai, X. et al. Association between prediabetes 
and risk of all cause mortality and cardiovascular 
disease: updated meta-analysis. BMJ 370,  
m2297 (2020).
35.	 Echouffo-Tcheugui, J. B., Perreault, L., Ji, L. & 
Dagogo-Jack, S. Diagnosis and Management  
of Prediabetes: A Review. JAMA 329,  
1206–1216 (2023).
36.	 Diabetes Prevention Program Research Group. 
Long-term effects of lifestyle intervention 
or metformin on diabetes development and 
microvascular complications over 15-year follow-
up: the Diabetes Prevention Program Outcomes 
Study. Lancet Diabetes Endocrinol 3,  
866–875 (2015).
37.	 Sandforth, A. et al. Mechanisms of weight loss-
induced remission in people with prediabetes: a 
post-hoc analysis of the randomised, controlled, 
multicentre Prediabetes Lifestyle Intervention 
Study (PLIS). Lancet Diabetes Endocrinol 11, 
798–810 (2023).
38.	 Howells, L., Musaddaq, B., McKay, A. J. & Majeed, 
A. Clinical impact of lifestyle interventions for the 
prevention of diabetes: an overview of systematic 
reviews. BMJ Open 6, e013806 (2016).
39.	 Bergman, M. et al. International Diabetes 
Federation Position Statement on the 1-hour 
post-load plasma glucose for the diagnosis of 
intermediate hyperglycaemia and type 2 diabetes. 
Diabetes Res Clin Pract 209, 111589 (2024).
40.	 WHO. World Health Organization. Diagnostic 
Criteria and Classification of Hyperglycaemia First 
Detected in Pregnancy. Preprint at http://apps.
who.int/iris/bitstream/10665/85975/1/WHO_
NMH_MND_13.2_eng.pdf (2013).
41.	 Hod, M. et al. The International Federation of 
Gynecology and Obstetrics (FIGO) Initiative 
on gestational diabetes mellitus: A pragmatic 
guide for diagnosis, management, and care. Int J 
Gynaecol Obstet 131 Suppl 3, S173-211 (2015).
42.	 Immanuel, J. & Simmons, D. Screening and 
Treatment for Early-Onset Gestational Diabetes 
Mellitus: a Systematic Review and Meta-analysis. 
Curr. Diab. Rep. 17, 115 (2017).
43.	 Guariguata, L., Linnenkamp, U., Beagley, J., 
Whiting, D. R. & Cho, N. H. Global estimates of 
the prevalence of hyperglycaemia in pregnancy. 
Diabetes Res Clin Pract 103, 176–185 (2014).
IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org  |  23 


=== PAGE 29 ===
44.	 Simmons, D. et al. Treatment of Gestational 
Diabetes Mellitus Diagnosed Early in Pregnancy.  
N Engl J Med 388, 2132–2144 (2023).
45.	 Seifu, C. N. et al. Association Between Immediate 
Treatment of Early Gestational Diabetes Mellitus 
and Breastfeeding Outcomes: Findings From the 
TOBOGM Study. Diabetes Care dc231635 (2024) 
doi:10.2337/dc23-1635.
46.	 Haque, M. M. et al. Cost-effectiveness of  
diagnosis and treatment of early gestational 
diabetes mellitus: economic evaluation of the 
TOBOGM study, an international multicenter 
randomized controlled trial. EClinicalMedicine  
71, 102610 (2024).
47.	 American Diabetes Association. Diagnosis and 
classification of diabetes mellitus. Diabetes Care  
37 Suppl 1, S81-90 (2014).
48.	 Chivese, T. et al. IDF Diabetes Atlas: The 
prevalence of pre-existing diabetes in pregnancy 
- A systematic reviewand meta-analysis of studies 
published during 2010-2020. Diabetes Res Clin 
Pract 183, 109049 (2022).
49.	 Diagnostic criteria and classification of 
hyperglycaemia first detected in pregnancy: a 
World Health Organization Guideline. Diabetes  
Res. Clin. Pract. 103, 341–363 (2014).
50.	 International Association of Diabetes and 
Pregnancy Study Groups Consensus Panel et 
al. International association of diabetes and 
pregnancy study groups recommendations on  
the diagnosis and classification of hyperglycaemia 
in pregnancy. Diabetes Care 33, 676–682 (2010).
51.	 Saeedi, M., Cao, Y., Fadl, H., Gustafson, H. & 
Simmons, D. Increasing prevalence of gestational 
diabetes mellitus when implementing the IADPSG 
criteria: A systematic review and meta-analysis. 
Diabetes Res Clin Pract 172, 108642 (2021).
52.	 Song, C. et al. Long-term risk of diabetes in 
women at varying durations after gestational 
diabetes: a systematic review and meta-analysis 
with more than 2 million women. Obes Rev 19,  
421–429 (2018).
53.	 Benhalima, K. et al. The 2024 Flemish consensus 
on screening for gestational diabetes mellitus 
early and later in pregnancy. Acta Clin  
Belg 79, 217–224 (2024).
54.	 Saravanan, P. et al. Early pregnancy HbA1c as 
the first screening test for gestational diabetes: 
results from three prospective cohorts. Lancet 
Diabetes Endocrinol 12, 535–544 (2024).
55.	 Guariguata, L., Linnenkamp, U., Beagley, J., 
Whiting, D. R. & Cho, N. H. Global estimates of 
the prevalence of hyperglycaemia in pregnancy. 
Diabetes Res. Clin. Pract. 103, 176–185 (2014).
56.	 Hivert, M.-F. et al. Pathophysiology from 
preconception, during pregnancy, and beyond. 
Lancet 404, 158–174 (2024).
57.	 Bellamy, L., Casas, J.-P., Hingorani, A. D. & Williams, 
D. Type 2 diabetes mellitus after gestational 
diabetes: a systematic review and meta-analysis. 
Lancet 373, 1773–1779 (2009).
58.	 Fetita, L.-S., Sobngwi, E., Serradas, P., Calvo, F. & 
Gautier, J.-F. Consequences of fetal exposure to 
maternal diabetes in offspring. J. Clin. Endocrinol. 
Metab. 91, 3718–3724 (2006).
59.	 World Health Organization. Classification of 
diabetes mellitus [Internet]. World Health 
Organization; 2019 [cited 2019 Jul 16]. 
Available from: https://apps.who.int/iris/
handle/10665/325182.
60.	 Hattersley, A. T. et al. ISPAD Clinical Practice 
Consensus Guidelines 2018: The diagnosis and 
management of monogenic diabetes in children 
and adolescents. Pediatr Diabetes 19 Suppl 27, 
47–63 (2018).
61.	 Vaxillaire, M., Bonnefond, A. & Froguel, P. The 
lessons of early-onset monogenic diabetes for  
the understanding of diabetes pathogenesis.  
Best Pract Res Clin Endocrinol Metab 26,  
171–187 (2012).
62.	 Cnop, M., Toivonen, S., Igoillo-Esteve, M. & 
Salpea, P. Endoplasmic reticulum stress and eIF2α 
phosphorylation: The Achilles heel of pancreatic β 
cells. Mol Metab 6, 1024–1039 (2017).
24  |  IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org


=== PAGE 30 ===
IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org  |  25 


=== PAGE 31 ===
Methods
28	
2.1 Interpretation of estimates
28	
2.2 Gathering and selecting data sources
30	
2.3 Estimating diabetes prevalence and projections for the future
30	
2.4 Extrapolating data
30 
2.5 Estimating confidence intervals
31	
2.6 Standardisation of estimates
32	
2.7 Estimating undiagnosed diabetes prevalence
33	
2.8 Estimating the prevalence of intermediate states of hyperglycaemia
34	
2.9 Estimating the prevalence of hyperglycaemia in pregnancy
35	
2.10 Estimating diabetes-related mortality
35	
2.11 Estimating the economic impact of diabetes
36	
2.12 Estimating diabetes prevalence for type 1 diabetes across all age groups
38	
References
2
Tinotenda Dzikiti, Zimbabwe - Living with type 1 diabetes
26  |  IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org


=== PAGE 32 ===
Key messages:
246 data sources from 153 countries were selected 
to estimate diabetes prevalence for the current IDF 
Diabetes Atlas.
Data sources come from countries which comprise 
over 93% of the global population.
Other sources, such as registries, have also been 
included, but only after rigorous scrutiny of their 
quality, just as for the peer-reviewed publications. 
Future projections have been calculated using the 
United Nations population predictions and degree 
of urbanisation. These predictions only take into 
account changes in the distribution of age, sex  
and urban/rural residence ratio.
IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org  |  27 


=== PAGE 33 ===
2.1 Interpretation of estimates
Monitoring prevalence, the number of people 
with diabetes at any one time divided by the total 
population, is an important indicator of disease  
impact and is valuable for monitoring the impact  
of preventive interventions. 
In each edition of the IDF Diabetes Atlas, we estimate 
diabetes prevalence based on the best quality data 
available at the time of analysis as judged by the 
international diabetes experts who comprise the  
IDF Diabetes Atlas Committee.	
Depending on study design, sample size, type of 
measurements performed, definitions, and methods 
of analysis, these estimates can vary markedly 
between studies and countries as well as over time. 
Therefore, changes in the magnitude of prevalence 
of individual countries from edition to edition and 
comparisons between countries should be treated 
with caution. Large differences are usually the result 
of new studies, which may have been performed 
several years after those previously available. 
Additionally, future estimates are based only on 
projected changes in age, sex, and rural-urban 
residence as defined by the United Nations (UN).
2.2 Gathering and selecting  
data sources 
The data used for the estimation of diabetes 
prevalence in this edition of the IDF Diabetes 
Atlas were obtained from a variety of sources. The 
vast majority were extracted from peer-reviewed 
publications and national health surveys. The latter 
included selected WHO STEPwise approach to NCD 
risk factor surveillance (WHO STEPS) studies.1 In total, 
59 WHO STEPS were included as data sources, and 
18 were excluded, having been recently shown to 
overestimate diabetes prevalence.2 Data from other 
official sources, such as registries and reports from 
health regulatory bodies, were also used, provided 
there was sufficient information to assess their quality. 
Data sources required sufficient methodological 
details on key areas of interest such as the method 
of diagnosis and representativeness of the sample to 
be included. Given the importance of age as a major 
determinant for diabetes prevalence, only studies with 
at least three age-specific estimates across their age 
range were included. Data sources published before 
2005 were excluded.
Furthermore, locations with population of less than 
50,000 were excluded. As a result, this edition presents 
data for 215 countries and territories. 
In addition to data sources used in the previous 10th 
edition of the Atlas, new sources were sought. The 
Atlas systematically reviewed the literature published 
between September 2020 and March 2024, adding 
63 data sources from 31 countries to the existing 
database (Map 2.1). 
As in previous IDF Diabetes Atlas editions, each source 
was scored to evaluate the quality of available data, 
using an analytical hierarchy process3 that considers 
the criteria mentioned in Figure 2.1. Each criterion’s 
classification possibilities are presented from the 
highest to the lowest degree of preference in the 
figure. Preference was thus given to data sources 
based on the objective measurement of diabetes 
status (rather than self-reported), with a sample 
size >5000, nationally representative, conducted in 
the past five years, and published in peer-reviewed 
journals or derived from national health surveys.†  
The final score of a data source is the sum of scores 
on the five criteria mentioned in Figure 2.1. Among 
studies meeting this cut off for a given country, the 
one with the highest score and others with a score 
within 0.1 of this highest score were included in 
prevalence calculations.
In total, 241 out of 991 identified data sources (24.3%) 
were used to generate estimates and projections. 
The identified data sources received a score above 
threshold and agreed in consensus with members of 
the IDF Diabetes Atlas Committee. An additional five 
studies, with quality below the Atlas threshold, were 
included by expert consensus for this 11th edition, 
usually given the alternative of having no study to 
estimate a given country’s prevalence.
† Data sources used in this edition can be 
found on the IDF Diabetes Atlas website: 
diabetesatlas.org
28  |  IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org


=== PAGE 34 ===
Map 2.1 Countries and territories with in-country data sources on diabetes.
Countries with 
in-country data 
sources
Figure 2.1 Classification of diabetes data sources
Method of diabetes diagnosis 
  	
●
Oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) 
  	
●
Fasting blood glucose (FBG) 
  	
●
Haemoglobin A1c (HbA1c) 
  	
●
Self-reported diabetes
  	
●
Medical record or clinical diagnosis
Age of the data source 
(i.e. time since study conducted) 
  	
●
Less than 5 years 
  	
●
5 to 9 years
  	
●
10 to 19 years 
  	
●
20 or more years
Sample size 
  	
●
Equal to or greater than  
5,000 people 
  	
●
1,500 to 4,999 people
  	
●
700 to 1,499 people
  	
●
Less than 700 people
Type of publication 
  	
●
Peer-reviewed publication 
  	
●
National health survey 
  	
●
Other official report or publication 
by a health regulatory body 
  	
●
Unpublished study
Representativeness of study sample 
  	
●
Nationally representative 
  	
●
Regionally representative 
  	
●
Locally representative 
  	
●
Ethnic (or other) specific  
group representative
IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org  |  29 


=== PAGE 35 ===
2.3 Estimating diabetes prevalence  
and projections for the future 
Smoothed age- and sex-specific prevalence estimates 
for each selected data source were produced using  
a logistic regression model.
If more than one data source was available for 
an individual country, the country-level diabetes 
estimates were derived as the average prevalence 
estimated from the various data sources, each 
weighted by the analytical hierarchy process quality 
score. This permitted the higher-quality studies to 
contribute more to the final country estimate. The 
details of the logistic regression model have been 
described in a previous publication,4.
For each country, age- sex- and urban/rural-specific 
diabetes estimates were generated. When a study  
was not nationally representative, the national 
prevalence was estimated, taking into account the 
urban/rural ratio of the study in relation to that of  
the country. The ratio of urban to rural disease 
prevalence was estimated for studies that did not 
present results stratified by urban and rural residence 
in countries. Atlas data from countries judged to be 
similar and the United Nations Population Division 
(UNPD)6 approximation of the country’s urban/rural  
population ratio were used to distribute the results  
by urban and rural prevalence. 
Country prevalence estimates were then aggregated 
to produce estimates for the seven IDF Regions 
and for countries in the four World Bank income 
classification categories. 
The UNPD World Population Prospects (2022 Revision) 
estimates were used to transform prevalence 
estimates into the number of people with diabetes 
for each nation. To project diabetes estimates forward 
to the year 2050, the population projection for 2050 
from the UNPD for each country was used. The 2050 
diabetes projection assumes that diabetes prevalence 
does not change for each age group but considers the 
changes in population age structure and degree of 
urbanisation.7 This approach is likely to underestimate 
future diabetes prevalence as it does not take into 
account an increasing prevalence of obesity and other 
risk factors, independent of age and urbanisation, 
known to result in a higher diabetes incidence.
2.4 Extrapolating data 
One-third of countries or territories with more than 
50,000 habitants (62 countries out of 215 countries or 
territories, 29%) do not have in-country data sources 
on diabetes prevalence that fulfil the IDF Diabetes 
Atlas inclusion criteria. Under such circumstances, 
estimates were generated by extrapolation using 
diabetes prevalence data from countries that are 
similar in ethnicity,8 language,9 World Bank income 
classification,10 and geographic location. 
Extrapolated estimates are less reliable than 
estimates based on national data sources and 
should be interpreted with caution. Countries with 
extrapolated estimates are designated in the country 
summary table (Appendices) and Map 2.1. The use 
of extrapolation emphasises the importance of 
conducting high-quality studies worldwide that help  
to address gaps in diabetes prevalence information. 
2.5 Estimating confidence intervals 
Confidence intervals are provided to indicate the 
degree of uncertainty around each of the estimates. 
Heterogenous data sources provide diabetes 
prevalence estimates that are not harmonized for 
analysis. Polynomial regression models are thus used 
to harmonize the data from heterogenous studies. 
Predicted estimates from models for specific country 
population subgroups (regarding female or male 
gender, urban or rural location type and 5-year age 
groups in the range 20 to 79 years) are weighted 
and combined (weighted average formula) taking 
into account the quality of the data sources and 
also the population size of the analysed subgroups. 
The predicted estimates are combined in order 
to derive country-level and regional-level average 
estimates. The standard error is also computed for 
each predicted estimate from the models. Error 
propagation using the weighted variances of the 
estimates was used to derive the variance of the 
combined estimates. Correlation between the 
errors of the estimates was accounted in the error 
propagation process, in the case of extrapolated 
countries that were missing data sources and data 
sources from similar countries were used. Confidence 
intervals were constructed using the propagated error 
in the national, regional and global level.5,11
30  |  IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org


=== PAGE 36 ===
Map 2.2 Countries and territories with data sources on the proportion of adults (20–79 years)  
with previously undiagnosed diabetes.
Countries with 
in-country data 
sources
2.6 Standardisation of estimates
It is important to appreciate that the IDF Diabetes 
Atlas presents two sets of prevalence estimates  
for diabetes, impaired glucose tolerance (IGT),  
and impaired fasting glucose (IFG) for each country  
in 2024.
The first set is calculated by applying the computed 
age-, sex- and urbanisation-specific prevalence rates 
from the literature to the country’s 2024 age-, sex- and 
urban/rural setting distribution as estimated by the 
UN Population Division, World Population Prospects 
(2024 Revision).6,12
This provides a prevalence estimate per country, as 
indicated in the table and figure footnotes: ‘national 
prevalence’. However, to permit comparison of 
diabetes prevalence between countries, additional 
‘age-standardised’ estimates were also calculated.
These were produced by standardising 2024  
prevalence estimates from each country to the age 
structure of the UN Population Division’s estimated 
world population (2022 Revision). They are referred 
to as age-standardised and indicated with a footnote: 
‘standardised to world population’. This latter 
standardisation approach removes the effect of 
differences in the age structure between countries. 
The age-standardised diabetes prevalence in 2050 was 
calculated using the UN projected global age structure 
for 2050.6
IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org  |  31 


=== PAGE 37 ===
Map 2.3 Countries and territories with selected data sources on impaired glucose tolerance adults 
(20–79 years).
Countries with 
in-country data 
sources
2.7 Estimating undiagnosed diabetes prevalence 
The early detection of diabetes and initiation of 
treatment is extremely important in the management 
of diabetes and prevention of complications. The longer 
a person has diabetes but remains undiagnosed, the 
greater the risk of developing complications. People 
are defined as having undiagnosed diabetes when 
their blood glucose levels would satisfy the diagnostic 
criteria for diabetes, but the diagnosis has not been 
confirmed by a health professional.
Population-based scientific studies allow us to 
estimate the prevalence of undiagnosed diabetes 
worldwide. A sample of the population is surveyed 
to assess how many people have diabetes by testing 
blood glucose levels. Additionally, all participants are 
asked whether they were previously diagnosed with 
diabetes by a health professional. This helps establish 
the proportion of people with diabetes-level blood 
glucose who remain undiagnosed. 
The proportion of undiagnosed diabetes may differ 
greatly across countries, for example, depending on 
access to healthcare services, disease awareness,  
and socioeconomic context. In a final step, prevalence 
estimates and proportions undiagnosed are multiplied 
with population size numbers to calculate the total 
number of people with undiagnosed diabetes in  
a respective country. 
It is important to keep in mind that diagnostic tests 
are based on different biochemical processes and 
often yield different results.13 Common diabetes 
biomarkers, such as fasting plasma glucose (FPG) or 
haemoglobin A1c (HbA1c), detect different subgroups 
of people with diabetes and those groups only 
partially overlap. Studies using different combinations 
of diabetes biomarkers may thus report different 
diabetes prevalence estimates. Furthermore, this 
affects the number of undiagnosed people. That said, 
the limited availability of data means that reports of 
this nature must make decisions on which diagnostic 
methods for diabetes are prioritised. 
For this edition of the IDF Diabetes Atlas, we 
have assembled all published studies reporting 
undiagnosed diabetes that met defined selection 
criteria (see Chapter 2, “Gathering and selecting 
data sources”), regardless of the diabetes biomarker 
used. The average of the estimates was calculated 
for countries that reported data on estimates of 
undiagnosed diabetes. However, in countries without 
in-country data sources, the undiagnosed proportion 
was approximated by the average of the estimates 
from countries with data sources within the same IDF 
Region (e.g., Europe IDF Region) or IDF Region and 
World Bank Income Group. Estimates of undiagnosed 
diabetes were generated using 193 data sources 
representing 109 countries (Map 2.2).
32  |  IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org


=== PAGE 38 ===
Map 2.4 Countries and territories with selected data sources on impaired fasting glucose in adults  
(20–79 years).
Countries with 
in-country data 
sources
2.8 Estimating the prevalence of intermediate states of hyperglycaemia
Data sources for IGT and IFG prevalence were identified 
and selected according to previously described criteria 
(See Chapter 1). There were 51 high-quality studies 
(from 46 countries) for IGT and 63 high-quality studies 
(from 60 countries) for IFG that satisfied the selection 
criteria (Map 2.3 and Map 2.4). A logistic regression 
model was used to estimate smoothed prevalence of 
IGT and IFG by country. The prevalence estimates for 
the remaining countries were extrapolated from similar 
countries (see Chapter 2, “Extrapolating data” and  
www.diabetesatlas.org under Resources). 
New to this edition, we identified studies with 
national estimates of HbA1c-defined intermediate 
hyperglycaemia, based on the American Diabetes 
Association (ADA) criteria (HbA1c 5.7-6.4%). There were 
21 countries with published data of HbA1c-defined 
intermediate hyperglycaemia. As there were fewer 
countries with published data, we did not extrapolate 
prevalence estimates for HbA1c-defined intermediate 
hyperglycaemia in countries that were missing data. 
IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org  |  33 


=== PAGE 39 ===
2.9 Estimating the prevalence of hyperglycaemia in pregnancy 
Data sources reporting age-specific prevalence of 
gestational diabetes (GDM) and diabetes first detected 
in pregnancy were searched14 and selected according 
to the criteria described previously.15 UN fertility 
projections16 and IDF estimates of diabetes were used 
to calculate the total percentage of live births affected 
by hyperglycaemia in pregnancy (HIP).
All studies were scored according to the diagnostic 
criteria used, the year the study was carried out, study 
design, the representativeness of the sample and the 
screening approach. Studies which met our predefined 
threshold were then selected to calculate country-level 
estimates. For this edition of the IDF Diabetes Atlas, 
65 studies from 52 countries were used to estimate 
country-level, age-specific prevalence of HIP using a 
generalised linear regression model (Map 2.5). The 
detailed methods for estimation of prevalence of  
HIP have been described previously.15
It should be noted that the method for selecting 
data sources was updated in the 9th edition of the 
IDF Diabetes Atlas. Thus, any comparison of the 
prevalence estimates from the 9th, 10th and 11th 
editions with those of previous editions must be 
viewed with caution. The changes in the selection  
of data sources include:  
  	
●
International Association of Diabetes and 
Pregnancy Study Group (IADPSG) diagnostic 
criteria have been given more weight in this 
edition compared to previous editions.  
  	
●
A new criterion, termed “screening approach”,  
has been added that includes the following 
options: universal one step, selective, two or  
more steps, and selective two or more steps.
Anita Sabidi, Indonesia - Living with type 1 diabetes
34  |  IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org


=== PAGE 40 ===
Map 2.5 Countries and territories with selected data sources on hyperglycaemia in pregnancy in 
adults (20–49 years).
Countries with 
in-country data 
sources
2.10 Estimating diabetes-related 
mortality 
The total number of deaths attributable to diabetes  
by country was calculated by combining information 
on the number of annual deaths from all-causes 
stratified by age and sex,17 age- and sex-specific 
mortality relative risks separately for people with 
diagnosed and undiagnosed diabetes compared 
to those without diabetes, and country-specific 
diagnosed and undiagnosed diabetes prevalence 
by age and sex for the year 2024. Relative risks 
attributable to diabetes are derived from cohort 
studies comparing death rates in those with  
diabetes (diagnosed and undiagnosed) and no 
diabetes.18–25 This method of estimating  
diabetes-related mortality (regardless of diagnosis 
status) is described in more detail elsewhere.26–28
2.11 Estimating the economic  
impact of diabetes
The direct cost estimates in this edition of the IDF 
Diabetes Atlas were calculated using an attributable 
fraction method, which relies on the following inputs:    
  	
●
IDF Diabetes Atlas estimates of diagnosed and 
undiagnosed diabetes prevalence for each  
country and for each age and sex sub-group, 
stratified by rural and urban setting.  
  	
●
UN population estimates for 2024 and  
UN population projections for 2050.
  	
●
WHO global health expenditures per capita  
for 2022 (latest available data).
  	
●
The ratios of health expenditures for people with 
diabetes compared to people without diabetes, 
stratified by age, sex, rural versus urban setting, 
diagnosed and undiagnosed diabetes, and  
income per IDF Region.
IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org  |  35 


=== PAGE 41 ===
The WHO definition of health expenditure includes 
provision of health services (preventive and curative), 
family planning activities, nutrition activities, and 
emergency aid designated for health, but does not 
include provision of water and sanitation services. 
The definition includes health expenditures from both 
public and private sources.29 The same method was 
used as in the previous editions to distribute the total 
health expenditure in a given country into expenditure 
by age and sex.30
Another critical component of the analyses is the 
ratio of health expenditures for people with diabetes 
(diagnosed or undiagnosed) compared to those 
without diabetes. Since the publication of the 8th 
edition of the IDF Diabetes Atlas, these ratios have 
been refined by the work of Bommer et al. (2017),31 
providing estimates for this ratio with much more 
specificity in relation to age, sex, rural versus urban 
setting, whether diabetes is diagnosed, region, and 
income levels of countries. 
The diabetes-related health expenditure estimates 
are presented in US dollars (USD), and in international 
dollars (ID), as well as a percentage of total health 
expenditures and of gross domestic product 
(GDP). IDs account for local purchasing power and 
facilitate direct cross-country comparisons of health 
expenditures. Health expenditures for diabetes as a 
percentage of total health expenditures and of GDP 
reflect the direct economic burden of diabetes to  
a national economy.
2.12 Estimating diabetes prevalence 
for type 1 diabetes across all  
age groups
The 11th Edition IDF Diabetes Atlas for the type 1 
diabetes estimates, uses outputs from Version 3.0 
of the T1D Index (t1dindex.org). The Index utilises 
a Markov Model and machine learning methods to 
estimate individual country and thereby global T1D 
numbers.32 It combines published and available 
unpublished population-based data on T1D incidence 
and prevalence, as well as mortality among those with 
and without T1D, to estimate prevalence, incidence 
and life expectancy for those with T1D in all countries. 
Childhood and adolescent T1D incidence 
data were sourced from recently published 
literature,publications cited in all previous editions of 
the Atlas with study dates from 2000 onwards, and 
also unpublished registry and study data provided 
by in-country researchers. In the T1D Index Version 
3.0, incidence data were available for 83 countries, 
and extrapolated for the 119 (of 202) other countries/
territories using previously-described  
Atlas methodology.33
Adult incidence data were derived from 30 studies 
from 21 countries and used to estimate incidence as a 
function of age, assuming a similar pattern of age of 
onset across countries. Estimates for countries in  
Sub-Saharan Africa were produced separately due  
to the later peak age of onset in that region.32,34 
36  |  IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org


=== PAGE 42 ===
Changes in incidence over time were then estimated 
for the period between 1985 and 2019, using the most 
representative data for each country, either from local 
data or extrapolated from regional or global averages. 
Data from the COVID-19 pandemic years 2020-22 were 
excluded from the incidence over time model as a 
number of studies showed marked temporal variation 
in incidence during this period,35 and very limited 
data have been published as yet for 2023 onwards. 
Incidence was assumed to be constant prior to 1985, 
unless there were earlier historical data, and assumed 
to be increasing/decreasing into the future at the same 
rate as occurred in the final year of available data. 
Actual prevalence data for single or multiple years 
were used when available (26 countries), and otherwise 
were modelled. Age-standardised mortality over 
time was modelled using random forest regression 
of mortality data from 39 countries, as well as infant 
mortality and under five year mortality rates, percent 
of population living in cities, doctors per capita, gross 
domestic product, and the mortality rate associated 
with the varying levels of T1D care across countries. 
T1D levels of care and diagnosis rates were estimated 
from an expert survey. Life expectancy was calculated 
using standard methods.32
IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org  |  37 


=== PAGE 43 ===
References
1.	
World Health Organization. STEPS: A Framework  
for Surveillance. Geneva; 2003.
2.	
Lin, S., Rocha, V. M. & Taylor, R. Artefactual inflation 
of type 2 diabetes prevalence in WHO STEP 
surveys. Trop Med Int Health 24, 477–483 (2019).
3.	
Saaty, T. L. Relative measurement and its 
generalization in decision making why pairwise 
comparisons are central in mathematics for the 
measurement of intangible factors the analytic 
hierarchy/network process. Rev. R. Acad. Cien.  
Serie A. Mat. 102, 251–318 (2008).
4.	
Guariguata, L., Whiting, D., Weil, C. & Unwin, N. 
The International Diabetes Federation diabetes 
atlas methodology for estimating global and 
national prevalence of diabetes in adults.  
Diabetes Res Clin Pract 94, 322–332 (2011).
5.	
IDF Diabetes Atlas scientific papers and posters.
https://diabetesatlas.org/scientific-papers- 
and-posters/
6.	
United Nations. World Population Prospects:  
The 2022 Revision. New York; 2022.
7.	
United Nations Population Division. 2018 Revision  
of World Urbanization Prospects. New York; 2018.
8.	
Central Intelligence Agency. The World Factbook, 
Ethnic Groups. Washington, DC; 2015.
9.	
Central Intelligence Agency. The World Factbook, 
Languages. Washington, DC; Languages; 2015.
10.	 The World Bank. World Bank Income Group 
Classification; 2024.
11.	 Sun, H. et al. IDF Diabetes Atlas: Global, regional 
and country-level diabetes prevalence estimates 
for 2021 and projections for 2045. Diabetes Res 
Clin Pract 183, 109119 (2022).
12.	 Ahmad OB, Boschi-Pinto C, Lopez AD, Murray CJ, 
Lozano R, Inoue M. Age Standardization of Rates: 
A new WHO Standard. :14.
13.	 NCD Risk Factor Collaboration (NCD-RisC). Global 
variation in diabetes diagnosis and prevalence 
based on fasting glucose and hemoglobin A1c. 
Nat Med 29, 2885–2901 (2023).
14.	 Yuen, L. et al. Projections of the prevalence of 
hyperglycaemia in pregnancy in 2019 and beyond: 
Results from the International Diabetes Federation 
Diabetes Atlas, 9th edition. Diabetes Res Clin Pract 
157, 107841 (2019).
15.	 Linnenkamp, U., Guariguata, L., Beagley, J., 
Whiting, D. R. & Cho, N. H. The IDF Diabetes Atlas 
methodology for estimating global prevalence of 
hyperglycaemia in pregnancy. Diabetes Res Clin 
Pract 103, 186–196 (2014).
16.	 United Nations. World Population Prospects:  
The 2024 Revision. New York; 2024.
17.	 United Nations. World Population Prospects:  
The 2024 Revision. New York; 2024.
18.	 Young Choi, J., Ali, M. K. & Choi, D. Determinants 
of health and mortality in undiagnosed diabetes: 
A nationally representative US adult, 2011-2020. 
Diabetes Res Clin Pract 210, 111634 (2024).
19.	 Barr, E. L. M. et al. Risk of cardiovascular and 
all-cause mortality in individuals with diabetes 
mellitus, impaired fasting glucose, and impaired 
glucose tolerance: the Australian Diabetes, 
Obesity, and Lifestyle Study (AusDiab).  
Circulation 116, 151–157 (2007).
20.	 Magliano, D. J. et al. Mortality, all-cause and 
cardiovascular disease, over 15 years in 
multiethnic mauritius: impact of diabetes and 
intermediate forms of glucose tolerance.  
Diabetes Care 33, 1983–1989 (2010).
21.	 Tian, Y. et al. Associations of Diabetes and 
Prediabetes With Mortality and Life Expectancy in 
China: A National Study. Diabetes Care 47,  
1969–1977 (2024).
22.	 Anjana, R. M. et al. Causes and predictors of 
mortality in Asian Indians with and without 
diabetes-10 year follow-up of the Chennai  
Urban Rural Epidemiology Study (CURES - 150).  
PLoS One 13, e0197376 (2018).
23.	 Ganna, A. & Ingelsson, E. 5 year mortality 
predictors in 498,103 UK Biobank participants: a 
prospective population-based study. Lancet 386, 
533–540 (2015).
24.	 Kondal, D. et al. Cohort Profile: The Center for 
Cardiometabolic Risk Reduction in South Asia 
(CARRS). Int J Epidemiol 51, e358–e371 (2022).
25.	 Follow-up of Indian Council of Medical Research-
India Diabetes (ICMR-INDIAB) study Phase-I & 
Northeast (Tamil Nadu & Arunachal Pradesh) - 
Changes in prevalence of diabetes/prediabetes, 
Incidence risk and rates of complications/ 
mortality. Grant number: No.57/3/INDIAB/ 
Ph-II/21-NCD-III (Unpublished data).
38  |  IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org


=== PAGE 44 ===
26.	 Saeedi, P. et al. Mortality attributable to diabetes 
in 20-79 years old adults, 2019 estimates: Results 
from the International Diabetes Federation 
Diabetes Atlas, 9th edition. Diabetes Res Clin Pract 
162, 108086 (2020).
27.	 Roglic, G. & Unwin, N. Mortality attributable to 
diabetes: estimates for the year 2010. Diabetes Res 
Clin Pract 87, 15–19 (2010).
28.	 IDF Diabetes Atlas Group. Update of mortality 
attributable to diabetes for the IDF Diabetes Atlas: 
estimates for the year 2011. Diabetes Res Clin Pract 
100, 277–279 (2013).
29.	 World Health Organization. Global Health 
Expenditure database. [Internet]. 2021. Available 
from: https://apps.who.int/nha/database.
30.	 Williams, R. et al. Global and regional estimates 
and projections of diabetes-related health 
expenditure: Results from the International 
Diabetes Federation Diabetes Atlas, 9th edition. 
Diabetes Res Clin Pract 162, 108072 (2020).
31.	 Bommer, C. et al. The global economic burden 
of diabetes in adults aged 20-79 years: a cost-of-
illness study. Lancet Diabetes Endocrinol 5,  
423–430 (2017).
32.	 Gregory, G. A. et al. Global incidence, prevalence, 
and mortality of type 1 diabetes in 2021 with 
projection to 2040: a modelling study. Lancet 
Diabetes Endocrinol 10, 741–760 (2022).
33.	 Ogle, G. D. et al. Global estimates of incidence 
of type 1 diabetes in children and adolescents: 
Results from the International Diabetes 
Federation Atlas, 10th edition. Diabetes Res Clin 
Pract 183, 109083 (2022).
34.	 Atun, R. et al. Diabetes in sub-Saharan Africa: 
from clinical care to health policy. Lancet Diabetes 
Endocrinol 5, 622–667 (2017).
35.	 D’Souza, D. et al. Incidence of Diabetes in Children 
and Adolescents During the COVID-19 Pandemic: 
A Systematic Review and Meta-Analysis. JAMA Netw 
Open 6, e2321281 (2023).
IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org  |  39 


=== PAGE 45 ===
The global picture of diabetes
42	
3.1 Diabetes prevalence in 2024 and projection to 2050 (20–79 years)
48	
3.2 Diabetes prevalence in older adults in 2024 and projection to 2050
50	
3.3 Undiagnosed diabetes
53	
3.4 Intermediate states of hyperglycaemia
57	
3.5 Hyperglycaemia in pregnancy
59	
3.6 Diabetes-related mortality
60	
3.7 The economic impact of diabetes
68	
3.8 Type 1 diabetes estimates in children and adults
71	
References
3
Gulninder Kaur, UK - Living with type 2 diabetes
40  |  IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org


=== PAGE 46 ===
Key messages:
An estimated 589 million adults aged 20–79 years 
are living with diabetes. This represents 11.1% of 
the world’s population in this age group.
The total number of adults living with diabetes is  
predicted to rise to 853 million (13%) by 2050.
An estimated 252 million adults living with diabetes  
are unaware they have the condition.
One in four adults (158 million) living with diabetes  
are aged over 65.
An estimated 635 million adults aged 20–79 years  
are living with impaired glucose tolerance (12%).
Over USD 1 trillion was spent on diabetes in 2024.  
This represents 12% of global health expenditure.
Over 3.4 million people died as a result of diabetes 
in 2024. This corresponds to 9.3% of global deaths 
from all causes.
An estimated 9.1 million people are living with type  
1 diabetes. The majority (69%) are aged 20-59.
An estimated 1 in 5 live births (23 million) are 
affected by some form of hyperglycaemia  
in pregnancy.
IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org  |  41 
IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org  |  41 


=== PAGE 47 ===
3.1 Diabetes prevalence in 2024 and projection to 2050 (20–79 years)
The estimates in the 11th edition of the IDF Diabetes 
Atlas are provided for 215 countries and territories, 
grouped into the seven IDF Regions: Africa (AFR), 
Europe (EUR), Middle East and North Africa (MENA), 
North America and Caribbean (NAC), South and 
Central America (SACA), South-East Asia (SEA) and 
Western Pacific (WP). In total, 246 data sources from 
153 countries and territories were included in the 
analyses (See Resources www.diabetesatlas.org).1 
Data are presented considering each country´s current 
age structure and, after adjustment to reflect the 
prevalence, the age structure of the world population.
Our projection for 2050 predicts a growth of 17% in 
the prevalence of diabetes due to the ageing of the 
population and increased urbanisation across the 
globe. It is estimated that 95% of the increase in the 
number of people with diabetes by 2050 will occur in 
low- and middle-income countries, where population 
growth is expected to be greater than in high-income 
countries (Table 3.2).
Map 3.1 Estimated number of adults (20–79 years) with diabetes by country, 2024.
< 100 thousand
100-<500 thousand
500 thousand-<1 million
1 - <10 million
10-<20 million
≥20 million
No estimates
This 11th edition of the IDF Diabetes Atlas provides 
estimates for diabetes in 2024 and projected 
estimates for 2050. The estimates include diagnosed 
and undiagnosed diabetes for adults aged 20–79.
Worldwide, a total of 589 million adults aged 20–79 
are estimated to have diabetes (11.1% of all adults in 
this age group). By 2050, the number of adults living 
with diabetes will rise to a projected 852.5 million. 
While the world’s population is estimated to grow  
25% over the next 25 years, the number of people  
with diabetes is estimated to increase by 45%  
(Map 3.1, Table 3.1, Map 3.2).
42  |  IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org


=== PAGE 48 ===
Table 3.1 Global estimates of key aspects of diabetes, intermediate hyperglycaemia,  
and hyperglycaemia in pregnancy in 2024 and 2050.
Table 3.2 Number of adults (20–79 years) with diabetes and diabetes prevalence for countries 
grouped by World Bank income classification, 2024 and 2050.
At a glance
2024
2050
World Population 
	
Total 
	
Adults (20-79 years)
 
8.1 billion 
5.3 billion
 
9.7 billion 
6.6 billion
All diabetes (20–79 years) 
	
Number of people with diabetes  
	
Prevalencei 
	
Number of deaths attributed to diabetes 
	
Total health expenditure due to diabetesii (2024 USD)
 
588.7 million 
11.1% 
3.4 million 
1.015 trillion
 
852.5 million 
13.0% 
- 
1.043 trillion
Type 1 diabetes 
	
Number of people with type 1 diabetes (all age groups) 
	
Number of people with type 1 diabetes (>20 years)
 
9.2 million 
1.8 million
 
 
Intermediate Hyperglycaemia 
 
  Impaired glucose tolerance (20–79 years) 
	
Number of people 
	
Prevalencei  
 
  Impaired fasting glucose (20–79 years) 
	
Number of people with impaired fasting glucose 
	
Prevalencei
 
 
 
634.8 million 
12.0% 
 
 
487.7 million 
9.2%
 
 
 
846.5 million 
12.9% 
 
 
647.5 million 
9.8%
Hyperglycaemia in pregnancy (20–49 years)  
	
Number of live births affected  
 
Proportion of live births affected
 
23 million 
19.7%
 
 
i. 
National prevalence. Updated to reflect the country’s current age, sex and urbanisation structure.
ii.	
Health expenditure for people with diabetes is assumed to be on average two fold higher than people without diabetes
i.	
National prevalence
ii.	
Prevalence is standardised to world population for the respective year
At a glance
2024
2050
World Bank 
income 
classification
Diabetes
prevalencei
(%)
Age- 
standardised 
diabetes
prevalenceii
(%)
Number of 
people with 
diabetes
(millions)
Diabetes
prevalencei
(%)
Age- 
standardised 
diabetes
prevalenceii
(%)
Number of 
people with 
diabetes
(millions)
World
11.1
11.1
588.7
13.0
13.0
852.5
High- 
income  
countries
12.4
10.2
114.1
14.0
12.0
126.5
Middle- 
income  
countries
11.3
11.5
452.9
13.7
13.5
674.8
Low- 
income  
countries
6.1
7.5
21.8
6.8
8.2
51.2
IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org  |  43 


=== PAGE 49 ===
Variation in diabetes prevalence across age, sex and setting 
Age is an important risk factor for diabetes. Ageing of 
the world’s population contributes to higher diabetes 
prevalence that results in an increasing proportion of 
people with diabetes over the age of 60.
Prevalence was lowest among adults aged 20–24  
(1.9% in 2024 and 2.2% in 2050). Conversely, it was 
highest among adults aged 75–79, with an estimated 
prevalence of 24.8% in 2024, which is expected to rise 
to 25.4% by 2050. 
The estimated diabetes prevalence is similar in women 
and men aged 20–79 (10.9% vs 11.3%). In 2024, the 
IDF estimates that 9.8 million more men than women 
were living with diabetes (Figure 3.2). 
Map 3.2 Estimated age-standardised country prevalence of diabetes in adults (20–79 years), 2024. 
<4%
4-<5%
5-<7%
9-<12%
7-<9%
≥12%
No estimates
44  |  IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org


=== PAGE 50 ===
Figure 3.1 Estimated numbers of people with diabetes (top panel) and estimated  
world-standardised prevalence of diabetes (bottom panel) in adults (20–79 years) by age  
group in 2024 and 2050. 
Figure 3.2 Prevalence of diabetes among men and women (20–79 years), 2024.
20-24
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
25-29
30-34
35-39
40-44
45-49
50-54
55-59
60-64
65-69
70-74
75-79
Number of people with 
diabetes (millions) 
Age (years)
2024
2050
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
20-24
25-29
30-34
35-39
40-44
45-49
50-54
55-59
60-64
65-69
70-74
75-79
Diabetes prevalence (%)
Age (years)
2024
2050
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
20-24
25-29
30-34
35-39
40-44
45-49
50-54
55-59
60-64
65-69
70-74
75-79
Prevalence(%)
Age (years)
Male
Female
IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org  |  45 


=== PAGE 51 ===
In 2024, more people with diabetes were living in 
urban (399.6 million) than rural (189.1 million) areas – 
the prevalence in urban areas was 12.7% and in rural 
areas 8.8%. The number of people with diabetes living 
in urban areas is expected to increase to 654.7 million, 
while the number in rural areas should remain stable 
(Figure 3.3). The projected prevalence is expected  
to reach 14.5% and 9.6% in urban and rural  
settings, respectively.
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
2024
2050
People with diabetes (millions)
Rural
Urban
Figure 3.3 Number of adults (20–79 years) with diabetes living in urban and rural areas in 2024 
and 2050.
Regional distribution
As explained in Chapter 2, age is a major determinant 
of diabetes risk. Thus, age-standardised diabetes 
prevalence estimates and projections have been 
generated to allow comparisons at IDF regional and 
country levels that remove the effect of different age 
distributions, using age-standardisation based on 
United Nations estimates of the age distribution of 
the world’s population, the “world-standard” for each 
specific year. The MENA Region had the highest  
age-standardised diabetes prevalence (19.9%) in 
people aged 20–79 years in 2024. This estimate is  
expected to increase, with the MENA Region 
continuing to have the highest age-standardised 
prevalence in 2050 (22.8%).
The AFR Region currently has the lowest  
age-standardised estimates of prevalence (5.0% in 
2024 and 5.9% in 2050), which can be attributed in 
part to low levels of urbanisation and low prevalence 
of overweight and obesity. The increase in percentage 
points over time is smaller than in other IDF regions 
(Table 3.3). This is likely to be underestimated given 
the rapid urbanisation and expected changes in 
lifestyles and ecosystems in this region.
Country distribution
The countries with the largest numbers of adults 
with diabetes aged 20–79 years in 2024 are China, 
India, and the USA. Pakistan is predicted to overtake 
the USA in the ranking of the estimated number of 
people with diabetes by 2050 (Table 3.4). Because of 
differences in population sizes, the countries with 
the highest number of people with diabetes do not 
necessarily have the highest prevalence. Differences 
in age distribution across countries affect rankings of 
the number of people with diabetes and the world-
standardised prevalence estimates.
The highest age-standardised diabetes prevalence 
rates in 2024 were reported in Pakistan (31.4%), 
Marshall Islands (25.7%), and Kuwait (25.6%) (Table 
3.5). The countries that are expected to have the 
highest overall age-standardised diabetes prevalence 
in 2050 are almost the same, with Pakistan reaching 
34.2%, Marshall Islands 28.7% and Kiribati 28.5%.
46  |  IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org


=== PAGE 52 ===
Table 3.3 Number and world-standardised prevalence of diabetes in adults (20–79 years) in  
the world and in IDF Regions, 2024 and 2050, ranked by the 2024 world-standardised prevalence.
2024
2050
Rank
Country or territory
Number of 
people with 
diabetes  
(millions)
Rank
Country or territory
Number of 
people with 
diabetes  
(millions)
1
China
148.0
1
China
168.3
2
India
89.8
2
India
156.7
3
United States of America
38.5
3
Pakistan
70.2
4
Pakistan
34.5
4
United States of America
43.0
5
Indonesia
20.4
5
Indonesia
28.6
6
Brazil
16.6
6
Egypt
24.7
7
Bangladesh
13.9
7
Brazil
24.0
8
Mexico
13.6
8
Bangladesh
23.1
9
Egypt
13.2
9
Mexico
19.9
10
Japan
10.8
10
Turkey
14.1
Table 3.4 Top 10 countries or territories by number of adults (20–79 years) with diabetes in 2024  
and 2050.
IDF: International Diabetes Federation; AFR: Africa; EUR: Europe; MENA: Middle East and North Africa; NAC: North America and Caribbean; SACA: 
South and Central America; SEA: South-East Asia; WP: Western Pacific 
2024
2050
Rank
IDF 
Region
Age- 
standardised 
diabetes 
prevalence 
(%)
Diabetes 
prevalence 
(%)
Number of 
people with 
diabetes 
(millions)
Age- 
standardised 
diabetes 
prevalence 
(%)
Diabetes 
prevalence 
(%)
Number of 
people with 
diabetes 
(millions)
World
11.1
11.1
588.7
13.0
13.0
852.5
1
MENA
19.9
17.6
84.7
22.8
21.0
162.6
2
NAC
13.8
15.1
56.2
15.3
16.4
68.1
3
WP
11.1
12.4
215.4
12.8
14.7
253.8
4
SEA
10.8
9.7
106.9
13.0
13.2
184.5
5
SACA
10.1
10.0
35.4
11.5
12.3
51.5
6
EUR
8.0
9.8
65.6
9.4
11.0
72.4
7
AFR
5.0
4.2
24.6
5.9
5.0
59.5
IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org  |  47 


=== PAGE 53 ===
Table 3.5 Top 10 countries or territories with age-standardised diabetes prevalence in adults 
(20–79 years) in 2024 and 2050.
Table 3.6 Global diabetes estimates in people (65-99 years) in 2024 and 2050.
i. Countries without in-country data sources. Estimates are extrapolated.
3.2 Diabetes prevalence in older adults in 2024 and projection to 2050
Diabetes prevalence increases with age. Therefore, 
the highest estimated prevalence is in people over 
65 (Figure 3.1). In 2024, the estimated number of 
people with diabetes aged 65–99 years was 158.3 
million (23.7%). If the current trend continues, the 
number of people aged 65-99 years with diabetes will 
be 278 million in 2050 (Table 3.6). These data point 
to a significant increase in the diabetes population of 
ageing societies in the next 25 years and the inevitable 
public health and economic challenges this will bring. 
It will require all countries to commit to sufficient 
resources to tackle diabetes.
Regional distribution
There are significant regional differences in the 
prevalence of diabetes in people over 65. Regions 
included in the top five places remained the same 
in 2024 compared with 2019, but the MENA region 
had the highest prevalence at (32.3%). The lowest 
prevalence remains in the AFR region (7.8%). This is 
generally true for 2050 as well (Table 3.7). However, 
the EUR region will fall to 6th place in the table with 
the SEA region taking its place. Overall, the projected 
diabetes prevalence in 2050 in this age group does not 
forecast significant increases. As an example, in the 
SACA Region the figures are 23.2% in 2024 and 23.6% 
in 2050, and in AFR 7.8% in 2024 and 8.3% in 2050.
2024
2050
Rank
Country or territory
Age- 
standardised 
diabetes  
prevalence (%)
Rank
Country or territory
Age- 
standardised 
diabetes  
prevalence (%)
1
Pakistan
31.4
1
Pakistan
34.2
2
Marshall Islands
25.7
2
Marshall Islands
28.7
3
Kuwait
25.6
3
Kiribati
28.5
4
Samoa
25.4
4
Kuwait
28.2
5
Qatari
24.6
5
Samoa
27.2
6
Kiribati
24.6
6
Qatari
27.0
7
Saudi Arabia
23.1
7
Egypt
25.7
8
French Polynesia
22.8
8
Saudi Arabia
25.4
9
Egypt
22.4
9
Bahrain
25.3
10
Bahrain
22.1
10
French Polynesia
23.9
2024
2050
Adult population (65-99 years)
667.8 million
1.1 billion
Prevalence (65-99 years)
23.7%
24.3%
Number of people over 65 with diabetes (65–99 years)
158.3 million
278 million
48  |  IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org


=== PAGE 54 ===
<5 thousand
5-<10 thousand
10-<50 thousand
50-<200 thousand
200-<500 thousand
≥500 thousand
No estimates
Country distribution
The countries with the highest number of people over 
65 with diabetes are China, India and the USA. India 
ranked higher than the USA in the number of people 
over 65 with diabetes for 2024 and 2050. (Map 3.3 
and Table 3.8). Projected rises by 2050 are shown and 
indicate that Germany and the Russian Federation will 
be replaced by Turkey and Egypt in the top 10 list of 
countries with for people over 65 with diabetes. 
Type 1 diabetes in older adults
For this edition of the IDF Diabetes Atlas, we were able 
to report some additional data on type 1 diabetes in 
people over 60. The global number of type 1 diabetes 
in adults is estimated to be 9.15 million, of which 1.1 
million are over 60, with a breakdown by age 655,000 
(60-69), 325,000 (70-79), and 81,000 (80 and above).
Mortality and health expenditure in older adults
Total global mortality for people with diabetes over 60 
is 2.2 million, and 9.2% of all-cause mortality deaths 
were due to diabetes in this age group. In 2024, 63% 
of deaths due to diabetes were in people over 60, and 
total health expenditure for people with diabetes over 
60 is a staggering USD501.9 billion.
Map 3.3 Number of people over 65 with diabetes in 2024.
IDF: International Diabetes Federation; AFR: Africa; EUR: Europe; MENA: Middle East and North Africa; NAC: North America and Caribbean; SACA: 
South and Central America; SEA: South-East Asia; WP: Western Pacific
Table 3.7 Diabetes age-standardised prevalence in people (65-99 years) by IDF Region  
in 2024 and 2050.
2024
2050
Rank
IDF Region
Age- 
standardised 
diabetes 
prevalence (%)
Number of 
people with 
diabetes  
(millions)
IDF Region
Age- 
standardised  
diabetes 
prevalence (%)
Number of 
people with 
diabetes  
(millions)
1
MENA
32.3
11.8
MENA
33.7
33.4
2
NAC
28.7
18.3
NAC
29.0
24.3
3
WP
25.3
67.0
WP
25.9
106.7
4
SACA
23.2
9.9
SACA
23.6
19.3
5
EUR
21.6
27.1
SEA
22.9
52.1
6
SEA
21.0
21.8
EUR
22.3
35.1
7
AFR
7.8
2.5
AFR
8.2
7.2
IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org  |  49 


=== PAGE 55 ===
World Bank income classification
Proportion undiagnosed (%)
Number of people with  
undiagnosed diabetes  
(millions)
High-income countries
28.9
32.9
Middle-income countries
45.5
206.0
Low-income countries
58.7
12.8
2024
2050
Rank
Country or territory
Number of people 
with diabetes  
(millions)
Rank
Country or territory
Number of people 
with diabetes  
(millions)
1
China
47.9
1
China
76.6
2
India
19.3
2
India
45.8
3
United States of America
14.1
3
United States of America
16.4
4
Japan
5.8
4
Brazil
10.6
5
Brazil
5.2
5
Pakistan
9.6
6
Pakistan
4.2
6
Indonesia
7.8
7
Indonesia
3.4
7
Mexico
5.9
8
Russian Federation
3.2
8
Japan
5.6
9
Germany
3.0
9
Turkey
5.5
10
Mexico
2.7
10
Egypt
5.4
Table 3.8 Top 10 countries or territories by number of adults (65-99 years) with diabetes in 2024 
and 2050.
3.3 Undiagnosed diabetes
Estimates of undiagnosed diabetes were generated 
using 193 data sources from 109 countries. For the 
remaining 106 countries, which either lacked data 
sources or data sources did not meet the quality 
criteria for inclusion, the prevalence of undiagnosed 
diabetes was extrapolated (see Chapter 2).
In 2024, just over four in ten (42.8%; 251.7 million) 
adults living with diabetes (20–79 years old) were 
undiagnosed. High prevalence of undiagnosed 
diabetes is often the result of insufficient access to 
healthcare services, as well as a limited capacity  
of health systems to identify diabetes cases.2 
Early diagnosis and the timely initiation of treatment 
are crucial for individuals with diabetes to prevent 
or delay complications, avoid premature death, 
and improve quality of life.3 Furthermore, the early 
detection and management of diabetes can help avoid 
substantial costs related to diabetes complications.4 
Scaling-up cost-effective diabetes screening and 
diagnostic capacity is a crucial first step towards 
improving care for people with diabetes. 
Global and regional disparities in  
undiagnosed diabetes
Across low-income, middle-income, and high-income 
countries, 58.7%, 45.5%, and 28.9% of adults living 
with diabetes are undiagnosed (Table 3.9). Globally, 
86.9% of all people with undiagnosed diabetes live in 
low- and middle-income countries, home to four-fifths 
of the world’s population.5
Table 3.9 Adults (20–79 years) with undiagnosed diabetes by World Bank income classification  
in 2024.
50  |  IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org


=== PAGE 56 ===
IDF Region
Proportion undiagnosed 
(%)
Number of people with undiagnosed 
diabetes (millions) 
World
42.8
251.7
AFR
72.6
17.9
WP
50.0
107.6
SEA
42.7
45.6
MENA
37.2
31.5
EUR
33.6
22.0
SACA
30.4
10.7
NAC
29.1
16.3
There are large differences in the proportion of 
undiagnosed diabetes across IDF regions. The highest 
proportion of undiagnosed diabetes is found in Africa 
(72.6%), followed by the Western Pacific (50.0%), 
and South-East Asia (42.7%) (Table 3.10). The lowest 
proportion of undiagnosed diabetes is found in 
North America and Caribbean (29.1%). Variation in 
undiagnosed diabetes across regions and countries 
is often linked to several factors, including social and 
economic conditions, health system performance, and 
awareness about diabetes among health professionals 
and the public.
The proportion of people living with undiagnosed 
diabetes varies by country (Map 3.4). Colombia 
(16.2%), Hungary (16.7%), and the Czech Republic 
(16.7%) have the lowest proportions of undiagnosed 
diabetes, whereas Burkina Faso (90.4%), Benin 
(89.8%), and Mozambique (88.6%) have the highest. In 
absolute terms, 50.5% of all people with undiagnosed 
diabetes globally live in just three countries, namely 
China, India, and Indonesia (Table 3.11). These 
three countries are among the four most populous 
countries in the world and among the top five 
countries in terms of number of people with  
diabetes (Table 3.4).
Overall, around half of all countries and territories 
included in this edition of the IDF Diabetes Atlas 
lack reliable in-country data sources (see Chapter 
2: Methods). To improve estimates of undiagnosed 
diabetes and guide health-system responses, 
investments in surveillance and monitoring systems 
for diabetes are urgently needed. Crucially, data 
quality depends on the collection of diabetes 
biomarkers in population-based studies. For reliable 
estimates, a combination of both HbA1c and FPG is 
recommended.6 However, diabetes monitoring efforts, 
particularly in low-resource settings, will need to 
balance diagnostic accuracy of different diabetes tests 
with their feasibility and the cost of implementation.
Globally, more than four in ten adults with diabetes 
in 2024 were unaware that they have the condition. 
This translates to 252 million people living with 
undiagnosed – and therefore untreated – diabetes, 
placing them at increased risk of complications and 
premature death. Thus, there is a clear need to scale 
up screening programmes and high-quality, person-
centred health services, especially in low- and middle-
income countries, where over 85% of people with 
undiagnosed diabetes live.
IDF: International Diabetes Federation; AFR: Africa; EUR: Europe; MENA: Middle East and North Africa; NAC: North America and Caribbean; SACA: 
South and Central America; SEA: South-East Asia; WP: Western Pacific
Table 3.10 Adults (20–79 years) with undiagnosed diabetes in IDF Regions in 2024, sorted by 
proportion undiagnosed from highest to lowest.
IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org  |  51 


=== PAGE 57 ===
<24%
35-<45%
45-<55%
55-<64%
≥65%
No estimates
Map 3.4 Proportion of adults (20–79 years) with undiagnosed diabetes by country in 2024. 
Table 3.11 Top 10 countries with the largest number of adults (20–79 years) with undiagnosed 
diabetes in 2024. 
Rank
Country
Proportion undiagnosed (%)
Number of people with 
undiagnosed diabetes (millions)
1
China
49.7
73.5
2
India
43.0
38.6
3
Indonesia
73.2
15.0
4
United States of America
24.8
9.6
5
Pakistan
26.9
9.3
6
Egypt
62.0
8.2
7
Mexico
41.3
5.6
8
Bangladesh
39.1
5.4
9
Brazil
31.9
5.3
10
Turkey
45.5
4.4
52  |  IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org


=== PAGE 58 ===
3.4 Intermediate states of hyperglycaemia
Prevalence of impaired glucose tolerance
In 2024, 634.8 million adults or 12.0% of adults 
worldwide were estimated to have impaired glucose 
tolerance (IGT). The age-standardised prevalence 
of IGT in 2024 was highest in the South-East Asia 
region and lowest in Europe (Table 3.12). The age-
standardised prevalence of IGT was 10.4% for high-
income countries, 12.3% for middle-income countries, 
and 11.6% for low-income countries (Table 3.13). By 
2050, an estimated 846.5 million adults or 12.9% of 
the global adult population are projected to have IGT
Prevalence of impaired fasting glucose
In 2024, an estimated 487.7 million adults or 9.2% of 
the global adult population were estimated to have 
impaired fasting glucose (IFG). The age-standardised 
prevalence of IFG in 2024 was highest in North 
America and Caribbean regions and lowest in Europe 
(Table 3.14). The age-standardised prevalence of IFG 
was 8.4% for high-income countries, 9.5% for middle-
income countries, and 6.7% for low-income countries 
(Table 3.15). By 2050, an estimated 647.5 million adults 
or 9.8% of the global adult population are projected to 
have IFG.
IDF: International Diabetes Federation; AFR: Africa; EUR: Europe; MENA: Middle East and North Africa; NAC: North America and Caribbean; SACA: 
South and Central America; SEA: South-East Asia; WP: Western Pacific
Table 3.12 Age-standardised prevalence of impaired glucose tolerance (20–79 years) by IDF 
regions, ranked by 2024 prevalence (%).
2024
2050 
Rank
IDF 
Region
Age-standardised IGT 
prevalence (%)
Number of people 
with IGT (millions)
Age-standardised IGT 
prevalence (%)
Number of people 
with IGT (millions)
1
SEA
13.8
145.7
14.6
204.9
2
WP
13.5
251.3
14.3
267.8
3
NAC 
11.6
46.6
12.6
55.3
4
AFR
11.5
56.8
13.7
135.1
5
SACA
11.0
38.7
11.9
51.9
6
MENA
11.0
49.7
11.6
85.3
7
EUR
5.9
45.9
6.2
46.2
Prevalence of HbA1c-based intermediate 
hyperglycaemia
The reported prevalence of intermediate 
hyperglycaemia based on the ADA HbA1c criteria  
(see Chapter 1: What is diabetes?) ranged from 5.5%  
in Ireland to 40.5% in Nigeria (Figure 3.4). 
Summary
The global prevalence of intermediate hyperglycaemia 
is substantial, although there is no consensus 
definition for intermediate states of hyperglycaemia 
or “prediabetes”. However, regardless of definition, 
intermediate states of hyperglycaemia are common 
and important risk factors for the development of type 
2 diabetes, suggesting major challenges for future risk 
of diabetes across the globe.
IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org  |  53 


=== PAGE 59 ===
Table 3.14 Comparative prevalence of impaired fasting glucose in adults (20–79 years),  
by IDF regions, ranked by 2024 prevalence (%).
2024
2050
Rank
IDF 
Region
Age-standardised IFG 
prevalence (%)
Number of people 
with IFG (millions)
Age-standardised IFG 
prevalence (%)
Number of people 
with IFG (millions)
1
NAC
13.6
53.0
14.3
61.6
2
SEA
12.2
129.4
12.8
180.9
3
SACA
9.2
32.2
10.0
43.2
4
WP
8.6
159.5
9.2
171.1
5
MENA
8.0
36.2
8.4
62.2
6
AFR
6.6
37.6
7.4
88.1
7
EUR
5.3
39.7
5.7
40.4
IFG: Impaired fasting glucose; IDF: International Diabetes Federation; AFR: Africa; EUR: Europe; MENA: Middle East and North 
Africa; NAC: North America and Caribbean; SACA: South and Central America; SEA: South-East Asia; WP: Western Pacific
Table 3.13 Age-standardised prevalence of impaired glucose tolerance in adults (20–79 years),  
by World Bank income group classification.
IGT: Impaired glucose tolerance
Impaired Glucose Tolerance
2024
2050
World Bank 
income 
classification
N  
countries
Age- 
standardised IGT 
prevalence (%)
Number of  
people with  
IGT (millions)
Age- 
standardised IGT 
prevalence (%)
Number of 
people with IGT 
(millions)
High-income 
countries
84
10.4
108.6
11.3
112.7
Middle-income 
countries
113
12.3
491.3
13.1
648.9
Low-income 
countries
29
11.6
34.8
13.9
84.9
54  |  IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org


=== PAGE 60 ===
<5%
5-<8%
8-<10%
10-<12%
12-<14%
≥14%
No estimates
Map 3.5 Age-standardised prevalence of impaired glucose tolerance in adults in 2024.
Table 3.15 Age-standardised prevalence of impaired fasting glucose in adults (20–79 years),  
by World Bank income classification.
Impaired Fasting Glucose
2024
2050
World Bank 
income 
classification
N  
countries
Age- 
standardised  
IFG prevalence 
(%)
Number of  
people with  
IFG (millions)
Age- 
standardised  
IFG prevalence 
(%)
Number of  
people with  
IFG (millions)
High-income 
countries
84
8.4
83.9
9.2
88.4
Middle-income 
countries
113
9.5
381.3
10.2
507.4
Low-income 
countries
29
6.7
22.5
7.2
51.7
IFG: Impaired fasting glucose
IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org  |  55 


=== PAGE 61 ===
<5%
5-<8%
8-<10%
10-<12%
12-<14%
≥14%
No estimates
Libya: 6.9
Map 3.6 Age-standardised prevalence of impaired fasting glucose in adults in 2024.
Figure 3.4 Reported prevalence of HbA1c between 5.7 to 6.4%. Label includes the country,  
study year, and age range of the study participants. 
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
45
Nigeria (2021) (15+ y)
Singapore (2016-2018) (30-70 y)
Netherlands (2007-2013) (40+ y)
Haiti (2015-2016) (25-65 y)
Republic of Korea (2019) (20+ y)
Kuwait (2012-2017) (18-65 y)
South Africa (2011-2012) (15+ y)
Czech Republic (2014) (25-64 y)
United Arab Emirates (2009-2010) (18+ y)
Germany (1999-2014) (38-79 y)
New Zealand (2008-2009) (15+ y)
Germany (2008-2011) (18+ y)
United States of America (2017-2020) (20+ y)
Ireland (2007) (45+ y)
Russian Federation (2013-2015) (20-79 y)
India (2008-2020) (20+ y)
Marshall Islands (2004-2010) (18+ y)
Brazil (2014-2015) (18+ y)
Portugal (2015) (25-74 y)
Canada (2007-2011) (20+ y)
Samoa (2019) (15+ y)
Norway (2017-2019) (20+ y)
Ireland (2009-2011) (50+ y)
Prevalence of HbA1c 5.7 - 6.4%
56  |  IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org


=== PAGE 62 ===
Table 3.17 Hyperglycaemia in pregnancy (20–49 years) by IDF Region, ranked by 2024  
age-standardised prevalence estimates.
IDF: International Diabetes Federation; AFR: Africa; EUR: Europe; MENA: Middle East and North Africa; NAC: 
North America and Caribbean; SACA: South and Central America; SEA: South-East Asia; WP: Western Pacific
Table 3.16 Global estimates of hyperglycaemia in pregnancy in 2024.
3.5 Hyperglycaemia in pregnancy
It is estimated that 23.0 million (19.7%) of live births  
to women in 2024 had some form of hyperglycaemia 
in pregnancy. Of these, 79.2% were due to 
gestational diabetes (GDM), while 11% were the 
result of diabetes detected prior to pregnancy, 
and 9.9% due to diabetes (including type 1 and 
type 2) first detected in pregnancy (Table 3.16).
Differences in these results compared to previous 
editions of the IDF Diabetes Atlas are possibly due 
to improved detection before and during pregnancy. 
More information on the methods can be found  
in Chapter 2. 
There are some regional differences in the  
prevalence of HIP, with the SEA Region having the 
highest age-standardised prevalence at 31.7%, 
compared to 13.8% in the AFR Region (Table 3.17). 
The vast majority (89.5%) of cases of hyperglycaemia 
in pregnancy are seen in low and middle-income 
countries, where access to antenatal care is limited.
The prevalence of HIP as a proportion of all 
pregnancies increases rapidly with age, with 
the highest prevalence, almost half (49.2%), in 
women aged 45–49 years, although there are 
fewer pregnancies in this age group (Figure 
3.5). This age group has a higher prevalence 
of diabetes among non-pregnant women. As a 
result of higher fertility rates in younger women, 
almost half (43.5%) of all cases of HIP (10.2 
million) occur in women under the age of 30. 
Global live births in women aged 20-49 years
118.5 million
Global prevalence of HIP
19.7%
Number of live births affected in millions
23.0 million
Proportion of cases due to GDM
79.2%
Proportion of cases due to other types of diabetes  
first detected in pregnancy
9.9%
Proportion of cases due to diabetes detected prior  
to pregnancy
11.0%
IDF Region
Age-standardised  
prevalence (%)
Prevalence (%)
Number of live births 
affected in millions
World
19.7 
19.7 
23.0
SEA
31.7
27.8
7.1
NAC
22.4
23.6
1.4
WP
19.8
20.8
4.2
MENA
19.4
19.7
3.6
SACA
15.8
16.0
1.0
EUR
14.2
15.9
1.5
AFR
13.8
13.9
4.7
IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org  |  57 


=== PAGE 63 ===
Figure 3.5 Prevalence of hyperglycaemia in pregnancy by age-group in 2024.
11.4
17.1
23.5
30.5
39.9
49.2
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
20-24
25-29
30-34
35-39
40-44
45-49
Prevalence of hyperglycaemia in pregnancy (%) 
Age groups
58  |  IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org


=== PAGE 64 ===
3.6 Diabetes-related mortality
Diabetes is a significant cause of mortality worldwide, 
though its impact varies by region due to differences 
in the prevalence of diabetes, age distribution and 
the role of other contributing causes of death. 
Approximately 3.4 million adults aged 20-79 years 
are estimated to have died because of diabetes or its 
complications in 2024 (2.4 million diagnosed diabetes-
related deaths and 1 million undiagnosed diabetes-
related deaths). This corresponds to 9.3% of global 
deaths from all causes in this age group. Almost 40% 
of the estimated number of deaths related to diabetes 
occurred in the most economically active age group 
(20-59 years) (Figure 3.6). Diabetes led to nearly one in 
ten (9.3%) of all deaths in this age group. 
The 2024 estimates for the number of deaths related 
to diabetes are lower than in prior editions of Diabetes 
Atlas due to multiple changes in methodology. The 
original source data for overall country-level mortality 
data was switched from an older WHO source to an 
updated United Nations source. The updated United 
Nations source has lower overall mortality numbers. 
In addition, the new estimates now account for 
mortality risk differences between diagnosed and 
undiagnosed diabetes. Relative risks of mortality 
compared to people without diabetes are  
generally lower in individuals with undiagnosed  
vs diagnosed diabetes.
Regional distribution
The IDF Western Pacific Region has the highest 
estimated number of diabetes-related deaths among 
adults aged 20-79 years of all the IDF Regions, with 
approximately 1.2 million deaths. This is followed by 
NAC, with approximately 0.53 million deaths. The IDF 
Regions with the lowest number of deaths are AFR 
and SACA, with approximately 0.22 million deaths 
each. These regional discrepancies are largely driven 
by the relative size of their respective populations  
with diabetes and their age distribution.
The proportion of total deaths associated with 
diabetes is an indicator of the relative mortality 
burden of diabetes within each IDF Region. Diabetes 
is associated with the highest percentage of deaths 
from all causes in NAC at 21.4% (Map 3.7). The second 
highest region is MENA, with 16.7% of all deaths 
associated with diabetes. The IDF Region with the 
lowest percentage of deaths associated with diabetes 
is AFR, at 4.0%. 
Country distribution 
Partly due to its large population, China has the 
highest estimated number of deaths from diabetes,  
at approximately 0.76 million. Due to its large 
population and high prevalence of diabetes, the 
USA has the second highest number of deaths with 
0.36 million. The next highest is India (0.33 million), 
followed by Pakistan (0.23 million), Indonesia (0.13 
million) and Mexico (0.12 million). 
The countries with the highest proportion of total 
deaths associated with diabetes are Guam (36%), 
New Caledonia (34%), French Polynesia (31%), Israel 
(30%), and Italy (29%). The countries with the lowest 
proportions are Russia (0.42%), followed by Zimbabwe 
and Rwanda, each with approximately 1.3% of total 
deaths estimated to be associated with diabetes. 
<5%
5-<8%
8-<13%
13-<17%
≥17%
No estimates
Map 3.7 Proportion of total deaths related to diabetes among adults (20-79 years) in 2024.
IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org  |  59 


=== PAGE 65 ===
3.7 The economic impact of diabetes
Diabetes imposes a substantial economic burden  
on countries, health systems, people with diabetes,  
and their families.7–9
Direct costs of diabetes 
Direct costs are the health expenditures that 
occur due to diabetes – regardless of whether the 
expenditure is borne out of pocket by people living 
with diabetes or by private or public payers, including 
governments. The IDF Diabetes Atlas has included 
estimates of health expenditure due to diabetes10–14 
since its 3rd edition in 2006. The increase in global 
health expenditure due to diabetes has been 
considerable, growing from USD 232 billion in 2007  
to more than a trillion USD (1,015 billion) in 2024  
for adults aged 20–79 years (Figure 3.7). 
This represents a 338% increase over 17 years. Part 
of this increase can be attributed to improved data 
quality. The direct costs of diabetes are expected to 
continue to grow. IDF estimates that total diabetes-
related health expenditure will reach USD 1.043 
trillion by 2050. This projection is conservative as 
it considers only population size, ageing, changes 
in sex distribution and urbanisation and assumes 
that age and sex-specific diabetes prevalence and 
diabetes-related expenditure remain constant. 
Figure 3.6 Estimated number of deaths due to diabetes in adults (20–79 years), by age and sex  
in 2024.
-
100,000
200,000
300,000
400,000
500,000
600,000
700,000
20-29
30-39
40-49
50-59
60-69
70-79
Deaths
Age (years)
Women
Men
In 2024, the total global 
diabetes-related health 
expenditure exceeded  
one trillion USD for the  
first time.
60  |  IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org


=== PAGE 66 ===
Figure 3.7 Total diabetes-related health expenditure for adults (20–79 years) with diabetes from 
2006 to 2050.
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
2006
2009
2011
2013
2015
2017
2019
2021
2024
2050
USD billion
Year
Regional distribution
The NAC Region has the highest total diabetes-related 
health expenditure of the seven IDF Regions (USD 
438.6 billion) and accounts for 43.2% of total global 
diabetes-related health expenditure in 2024. The 
second highest is the WP Region, with USD 246.3 
billion, followed by the EUR Region (USD 192.9 billion), 
corresponding to 24.3% and 19.0% of total global 
diabetes-related health expenditure, respectively. 
Despite being home to 42.7% of people with 
diabetes in the world, the SACA, MENA, SEA, and AFR 
Regions collectively account for only 13.5% of global 
diabetes-related health expenditure (Figure 3.8). 
The NAC Region also has the highest diabetes-related 
health expenditure per adult with diabetes (USD 
7,811), followed by the EUR Region (USD 2,950),  
SACA Region (USD 2,417) and WP Region (USD 1,173)  
(Figure 3.9). Health expenditure is USD 429 per person 
with diabetes in the MENA region, USD 414 in the AFR 
region, and USD 108 in the SEA region (Figure 3.9).  
In 2024, diabetes-related health expenditure per  
adult with diabetes varied across IDF regions by  
more than 70-fold.
Expenditure due to diabetes has a substantial 
impact on total health expenditure worldwide, 
representing 11.9% of total global health spending. 
In the SACA Region, an average of 22.4% of the 
total health expenditure was due to diabetes, the 
highest percentage of the IDF Regions, followed by 
17.0% in the MENA Region. The lowest percentage 
of health expenditure due to diabetes was 
observed in the EUR Region (8.8%) (Figure 3.10).
IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org  |  61 


=== PAGE 67 ===
Figure 3.8 Total diabetes-related health expenditure (USD billion) in adults with diabetes  
(20–79 years) by IDF Region in 2024.
439
246
193
81
35
12
10
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
400
450
500
NAC
WP
EUR
SACA
MENA
SEA
AFR
Total diabetes-related health expenditure (USD billion) 
IDF: International Diabetes Federation; AFR: Africa; EUR: Europe; MENA: Middle East and North Africa; NAC: 
North America and Caribbean; SACA: South and Central America; SEA: South-East Asia; WP: Western Pacific
Figure 3.9 Diabetes-related health expenditure (USD) per adult with diabetes (20–79 years)  
by IDF Region in 2024.
7,812 
2,951 
2,417 
1,174 
429 
414 
108 
-
1,000
2,000
3,000
4,000
5,000
6,000
7,000
8,000
9,000
NAC
EUR
SACA
WP
MENA
AFR
SEA
Diabetes-related health expenditure 
per person (USD) 
IDF Regions
IDF: International Diabetes Federation; AFR: Africa; EUR: Europe; MENA: Middle East and North Africa; NAC: 
North America and Caribbean; SACA: South and Central America; SEA: South-East Asia; WP: Western Pacific
62  |  IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org


=== PAGE 68 ===
Figure 3.10 Diabetes-related health expenditure as a percentage of total health expenditure  
for adults (20–79 years) with diabetes by IDF Region in 2024.
22.4
17.0
14.9
11.2
10.3
9.7
8.8
0.0
5.0
10.0
15.0
20.0
25.0
SACA
MENA
WP
NAC
AFR
SEA
EUR
%
IDF Regions
IDF: International Diabetes Federation; AFR: Africa; EUR: Europe; MENA: Middle East and North Africa; NAC: 
North America and Caribbean; SACA: South and Central America; SEA: South-East Asia; WP: Western Pacific
IDF: International Diabetes Federation; AFR: Africa; EUR: Europe; MENA: Middle East and North Africa; NAC: 
North America and Caribbean; SACA: South and Central America; SEA: South-East Asia; WP: Western Pacific
Figure 3.11 Diabetes-related health expenditure as a percentage of Gross Domestic Product 
(GDP) by IDF region in 2024.
2.5
1.9
1.3
1.1
1.0
1.0
0.4
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
SACA
NAC
MENA
WP
AFR
EUR
SEA
Percentage of GDP (%)
IDF Regions
IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org  |  63 


=== PAGE 69 ===
Figure 3.12 Diabetes-related health expenditure as a percentage of Gross Domestic Product 
(GDP) by World Bank income classification, 2024.
1.4
1.3
0.8
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
1.2
1.4
1.6
High-income countries
Middle-income countries
Low-income countries
Percentage of GDP (%)
World bank income classification
Diabetes-related health expenditure as a percentage 
of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) is highest in the 
SACA Region at 2.5%, followed by 1.9% in the NAC 
Region (Figure 3.11). When considering World 
Bank income classification, diabetes-related health 
expenditure as a percentage of GDP is highest 
amongst high-income countries (1.4%), followed by 
middle income countries (1.3%), and followed distantly 
by low-income countries (0.8%) (Figure 3.12).
64  |  IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org


=== PAGE 70 ===
Country distribution
On a country level, the highest diabetes-related health 
expenditure is observed in the USA (USD 404.5 billion), 
followed by China and Brazil, (USD 168.9 billion and 
USD 45.1 billion, respectively) (Table 3.18). 
The countries with the lowest diabetes-related health 
expenditure in 2024 were Niue and Nauru, with total 
expenditure of USD 0.8 million and USD 1.7 million, 
respectively (Map 3.8). 
Table 3.18 Ten countries or territories with the highest and lowest total health expenditure (USD) 
in adults (20–79 years) due to diabetes in 2024.
Rank
Country or territory
Total diabetes-related health expenditure in 2024 
(USD billion) in adults (20-79 years)
Highest
1
United States of America
404.5
2
China
168.9
3
Brazil
45.1
4
Germany
40.4
5
Japan
34.0
6
United Kingdom
23.6
7
France
22.5
8
Mexico
19.5
9
Argentina
15.4
10
Italy
15.4
Lowest
1
Niue
0.8
2
Nauru
1.7
3
Tuvalu
2.1
4
Tonga
4.5
5
St Kitts and Nevis
5.6
6
St Vincent and the Grenadines
5.9
7
Gambia
5.9
8
Sao Tome and Principe
6.3
9
Seychelles
6.6
10
Comoros
7.1
IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org  |  65 


=== PAGE 71 ===
Map 3.8 Total diabetes-related health expenditure (USD) by country for adults (20–79 years) with 
diabetes in 2024.
Map 3.9 Diabetes-related health expenditure (USD) by country per adult (20–79 years) with 
diabetes in 2024.
<50 million
10-<50 million
50-<200 million
200 million-<1 billion
≥1 billion
No estimates
<250
250-<500
500-<1,000
1,000-<2,000
2,000-<5,000
≥5,000
No estimates
66  |  IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org


=== PAGE 72 ===
In 2024, considerable disparities in diabetes-related 
health expenditure per person (20–79 years) existed 
among countries. The countries with the highest 
yearly expenditure per person are Switzerland (USD 
12,234), followed by the USA (USD 10,497) and Norway 
(USD 10,226). Countries with the lowest annual 
expenditure per person are Bangladesh (USD 74), 
Pakistan (USD 79) and Democratic Republic of the 
Congo (USD 81) (Map 3.9). 
Of the 10 countries with the highest health 
expenditure for diabetes per person, nine are  
from the EUR Region and one is from the NAC  
Region (Table 3.19).
Table 3.19 Ten countries or territories with the highest and lowest diabetes-related health 
expenditure (USD) per person with diabetes (20–79 years) in 2024.
Rank
Country or territory
Diabetes-related health expenditure in 2024 
(USD) per person with diabetes (20-79 years)
Highest
1
Switzerland
12,234
2
United States of America
10,497
3
Norway
10,227
4
Iceland
8,055
5
Luxembourg
8,026
6
Denmark
7,718
7
Ireland
7,234
8
Sweden
7,081
9
Austria
6,268
10
Germany
6,237
Lowest
1
Bangladesh
74
2
Pakistan
79
3
Democratic Republic of the Congo
81
4
Madagascar
91
5
Nepal
91
6
Ethiopia
96
7
Burundi
103
8
Gambia
109
9
India
109
10
Chad
111
IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org  |  67 


=== PAGE 73 ===
3.8 Type 1 diabetes estimates in children and adults 
Previous editions of the IDF Diabetes Atlas were 
restricted to children and adolescents living with 
type 1 diabetes (T1D) and did not consider potential 
changes in incidence and mortality in the interval 
between the study dates of the respective individual 
country data and publication dates of the Atlas.
Development of the Type 1 Diabetes Index (T1D Index) 
has enabled more current and accurate estimates to 
be calculated for all ages across all countries.15–17 The 
T1D Index is a joint initiative of Breakthrough T1D, Life 
for a Child, The International Diabetes Federation, and 
the International Society for Paediatric and Adolescent 
Diabetes. The Index uses a Markov model with 
machine learning and all available population-based 
incidence, prevalence and mortality data to produce 
national and, thereby, global estimates.17 
Findings
In 2024, there were an estimated 9.15 million 
individuals worldwide living with diagnosed clinical 
T1D,17 with 22.3% (2.04 million) of these living in  
low-income and lower-middle-income countries. 
Of this total population of 9.15 million, 1.81 million 
(19.8%), were younger than 20 years, 6.28 million 
(68.6%) were between 20 and 59 and 1.06 million 
(11.8%) were 60 or older. 
Figure 3.13 shows the number of people with T1D  
in each of these age brackets by IDF Region. The IDF 
Europe Region has the highest number of cases, 
followed by the IDF North America and Caribbean 
Region. The lowest number of people with T1D was 
observed in the Africa Region. 
Figure 3.13 Number of individuals with type 1 diabetes in each world region in 2024.
IDF: International Diabetes Federation; AFR: Africa; EUR: Europe; MENA: Middle East and North Africa; NAC: North America and Caribbean; SACA: 
South and Central America; SEA: South-East Asia; WP: Western Pacific
-
500,000
1,000,000
1,500,000
2,000,000
2,500,000
3,000,000
AFR
EUR
MENA
NAC
SACA
SEA
WP
IDF Region
Number of people with T1D
All ages
<20 years of age
20 - 59 years of age 
 >=60 years of age
In 2024, there were 503,000 new cases of T1D 
diagnosed at all ages, with 219,000 of these new cases 
in children and young adults under 20 years of age.
The T1D Index numbers clearly show that T1D is not 
just a condition that affects children and youth. With 
good care, people developing T1D in childhood live 
to older ages, adding to the number of adults with 
diabetes. Furthermore, adult onset of T1D is common. 
In 2024, 284,000 (56.5%) of all new clinically diagnosed 
T1D cases occurred in people aged 20 years or older. 
The current mean age of a person living with T1D  
is 35 years.
For the 83 countries with published data from recent 
years, the ten countries with the highest estimated 
incidence in children under 15 years of age in 2024 
were Finland, Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Qatar, Estonia, 
Algeria, Sweden, Canada, Norway and Libya, ranked  
in order of highest incidence. 
Table 3.20 shows the ten countries with the highest 
number of people of all ages living with T1D, and the 
number of children and adolescents living with T1D. 
The different ranking in the two columns reflects 
the younger population and the higher T1D-specific 
and overall mortality in lower-income countries such 
as India. This reduces the relative proportion of the 
number of adults living with T1D.
68  |  IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org


=== PAGE 74 ===
Table 3.20 Countries with the highest number of people living with T1D in 2024.
Access to quality diabetes care has an impact on life 
expectancy and varies markedly around the world. 
Map 3.10 shows the estimated average remaining life 
expectancy for a 10-year-old child diagnosed  
with T1D in 2024, which ranges from 6 years in  
one Sub-Saharan African country to over 66 years  
in some high-income countries.
<15 years
15-29 years
30-44 years
45-59 years
≥60 years
No estimates
Map 3.10: Remaining life expectancy of a 10-year-old child diagnosed with type 1 diabetes in 2024.
Rank
Country
Number of  
people of all ages 
living with T1D
Country
Number of children  
and adolescents  
under 20 living with T1D
1
United States of America
1,477,000
India
301,000
2
India
941,000
United States of America
197,000
3
China
599,000
China
117,000
4
Brazil
499,000
Brazil
99,000
5
United Kingdom
341,000
Egypt
69,000
6
Germany
337,000
Russian Federation
61,000
7
Russian Federation
323,000
Algeria
56,000
8
Canada
243,000
Turkey
47,000
9
Saudi Arabia
223,000
Saudi Arabia
46,000
10
Turkey
196,000
Morocco
43,000
IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org  |  69 


=== PAGE 75 ===
In 2024 there were an estimated 168,000 premature 
deaths due to T1D among which 30,000 were in the 
SEA Region, 31,000 in AFR, 34,000 in EUR, 18,000 in 
NAC, 27,000 in MENA, 14,000 in WP, and 14,000  
in SACA. 
Notably, approximately 30,000 of T1D deaths in 
2024 were in non-diagnosed individuals under 25 
years of age who died within 12 months of the onset 
of symptoms. These young people develop typical 
symptoms and signs of T1D, including passing too 
much urine, drinking excessive amounts of water and 
unexpected weight loss. In time, if not diagnosed and 
treated, diabetic ketoacidosis develops. Regretfully, 
T1D is frequently misdiagnosed as pneumonia, 
gastroenteritis, malaria, typhoid, appendicitis or other 
condition.18 Without a fast and accurate diagnosis, the 
child or young adult dies quickly. Health professional 
and community education and awareness initiatives 
have been shown to reduce the rate of ketoacidosis 
in some high-income countries19 and increase T1D 
diagnosis rates in low-income countries.20,21
One new feature of the T1D Index is its ability to 
estimate ‘Missing Prevalence’ (the number of people 
who would still be living in 2024 if they had not 
developed T1D) The number is estimated to be 4.0 
million. This highlights the substantial past and 
current premature mortality associated with T1D.
Many gaps in T1D epidemiological knowledge 
remain, particularly with regard to mortality and 
prevalence. There are also gaps in our knowledge of 
T1D incidence, especially in adults. The difficulty of 
distinguishing T1D from type 2 diabetes in adults is  
an area that requires further investigation.22,23
Full data are available at the T1D Index website:  
www.t1dindex.org.
70  |  IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org


=== PAGE 76 ===
References
1.	
IDF Diabetes Atlas scientific papers and posters.
https://diabetesatlas.org/scientific-papers- 
and-posters/
2.	
Manne-Goehler, J. et al. Health system 
performance for people with diabetes in 28 low- 
and middle-income countries: A cross-sectional 
study of nationally representative surveys. PLoS 
Med 16, e1002751 (2019).
3.	
Chan, J. C. N. et al. The Lancet Commission on 
diabetes: using data to transform diabetes care 
and patient lives. Lancet 396, 2019–2082 (2021).
4.	
Dall, T. M. et al. The economic burden of elevated 
blood glucose levels in 2012: diagnosed and 
undiagnosed diabetes, gestational diabetes 
mellitus, and prediabetes. Diabetes Care 37, 
3172–3179 (2014).
5.	
United Nations Department of Economic and 
Social Affairs. World Population Prospects: the 
2022 Revision. New York, USA, 2022.
6.	
NCD Risk Factor Collaboration (NCD-RisC). Global 
variation in diabetes diagnosis and prevalence 
based on fasting glucose and hemoglobin A1c. Nat 
Med 29, 2885–2901 (2023).
7.	
American Diabetes Association. Economic Costs 
of Diabetes in the U.S. in 2017. Diabetes Care 41, 
917–928 (2018).
8.	
Peters, M. L., Huisman, E. L., Schoonen, M. & 
Wolffenbuttel, B. H. R. The current total economic 
burden of diabetes mellitus in the Netherlands. 
Neth J Med 75, 281–297 (2017).
9.	
Yang, W. et al. Medical care and payment for 
diabetes in China: enormous threat and great 
opportunity. PLoS One 7, e39513 (2012).
10.	 International Diabetes Federation. IDF Diabetes 
Atlas, 8th edition. Brussels, Belgium; 2017.
11.	 International Diabetes Federation. IDF Diabetes 
Atlas, 7th edition. Brussels, Belgium; 2015.
12.	 International Diabetes Federation. IDF Diabetes 
Atlas, 6th edition. Brussels, Belgium; 2013.
13.	 International Diabetes Federation. IDF Diabetes 
Atlas, 5th edition. Brussels, Belgium; 2011.
14.	 International Diabetes Federation. IDF Diabetes 
Atlas, 4th edition. Brussels, Belgium; 2009.
15.	 Gregory, G. A. et al. Global incidence, prevalence, 
and mortality of type 1 diabetes in 2021 with 
projection to 2040: a modelling study. Lancet 
Diabetes Endocrinol 10, 741–760 (2022).
16.	 Ogle, G. D. et al. The T1D Index: Implications 
of Initial Results, Data Limitations, and Future 
Development. Curr Diab Rep 23, 277–291 (2023).
17.	 Ogle, G. et al. Global type 1 diabetes prevalence, 
incidence, and mortality estimates 2025: Results 
from the International Diabetes Federation Atlas, 
11th Edition and the T1D Index. Diabetes Res Clin 
Pract (2025).
18.	 Ogle, G. D., Middlehurst, A. C. & Silink, M. The IDF 
Life for a Child Program Index of diabetes care for 
children and youth. Pediatr Diabetes 17, 374–384 
(2016).
19.	 Cherubini, V. et al. Effectiveness of ketoacidosis 
prevention campaigns at diagnosis of type 1 
diabetes in children: A systematic review and 
meta-analysis. Diabetes Res Clin Pract 175, 108838 
(2021).
20.	 Sandy, J. L. et al. Rapid increases in observed 
incidence and prevalence of Type 1 diabetes in 
children and youth in Mali, 2007-2016. Pediatr 
Diabetes 22, 545–551 (2021).
21.	 Sagna, Y. et al. Incidence, prevalence, and mortality 
of type 1 diabetes in children and youth in Burkina 
Faso 2013-2022. Diabetes Res Clin Pract 207, 111086 
(2024).
22.	 Tomic, D., Harding, J. L., Jenkins, A. J., Shaw, J. E. & 
Magliano, D. J. The epidemiology of type 1 diabetes 
mellitus in older adults. Nat Rev Endocrinol 21, 
92–104 (2025).
23.	 Leslie, R. D. et al. Adult-Onset Type 1 Diabetes: 
Current Understanding and Challenges. Diabetes 
Care 44, 2449–2456 (2021).
IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org  |  71 


=== PAGE 77 ===
Diabetes by region
74	
Africa
76	
Europe
78	
Middle-East and North Africa
80	
North America and the Caribbean
82	
South and Central America
84	
South-East Asia
86 
Western Pacific
4
Nupur Lalvani, India - Living with type 1 diabetes
72  |  IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org


=== PAGE 78 ===
Key messages:
The total number of people with diabetes in the IDF Africa 
Region is predicted to increase by 142% to 60 million by 
2050, the highest percentage increase of all IDF Regions.
The IDF Europe Region has the highest number of people 
with type 1 diabetes (2.7 million).
1 in 6 adults has diabetes in the IDF Middle-East and North 
Africa Region – 85 million. The highest proportion of all  
IDF Regions.
The North America and Caribbean Region has the highest 
diabetes-related expenditure (USD 439 billion), 43% of 
global expenditure.
1 in 3 (30.4%) adults living with diabetes in the IDF South 
and Central America Region are undiagnosed.
1 in 3 live births in the IDF South-East Asia Region are 
affected by hyperglycaemia in pregnancy, the highest 
proportion of all IDF Regions.
Western Pacific is the IDF region with the highest number  
of adults living with diabetes (215 million) – 1 in 8.
IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org  |  73 


=== PAGE 79 ===
Estimates are provided for 49 Sub-Saharan African 
countries and territories in the IDF Africa (AFR) Region. 
For this edition of the IDF Diabetes Atlas, a total of 
35 data sources from 27 countries met the inclusion 
criteria. About half (45%) of the countries in the IDF 
AFR Region lack high-quality, in-country data sources. 
Only three countries (Cape Verde, Gambia and Sao 
Tome and Principe) had studies conducted within  
the past five years. 
Despite the lowest prevalence estimate of 5.0%  
among IDF Regions, the expected increase in the 
number of people with diabetes by 2050 is the 
highest at 142%, reaching 60 million. The AFR Region 
is also predicted to have the highest increase in the 
number of people with impaired glucose tolerance 
and impaired fasting glucose by 2050, reaching 135 
million (138% increase) and 88 million (134% increase) 
respectively. The proportion of undiagnosed diabetes 
is also highest of all the IDF Regions at 72.6%. 
Diabetes care receives the lowest level of investment 
in the AFR Region, with only 10 billion USD spent on 
diabetes, representing a mere 1% of the total spent 
worldwide, despite the Region being home to 11.4%  
of people with diabetes worldwide.
Diabetes in Africa
2024
Figure 4.1 Estimated prevalence (%) of diabetes by age and sex, IDF Africa Region 2024.
0.0
1.0
2.0
3.0
4.0
5.0
6.0
7.0
8.0
9.0
20-24
25-29
30-34
35-39
40-44
45-49
50-54
55-59
60-64
65-69
70-74
75-79
Prevalence (%)
Age (years)
Women
Men
Map 4.1 Age-standardised prevalence 
(%) of diabetes (20–79 years), IDF Africa 
Region 2024.
<5%
5-<6%
6-<7%
≥7%
74  |  IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org


=== PAGE 80 ===
At a glance
2024
2050
Adult population  
(20-79 years)
581m
1.2b
Diabetes (20-79 years)
Regional prevalence
4.2%
5.0%
Age-standardised 
prevalence
5.0%
5.9%
Number of people with 
diabetes (20-79 years)
25m
60m
Number of deaths  
due to diabetes  
(20-79 years)
216,000
Healthcare expenditure due to diabetes (20-79 years)
Total healthcare 
expenditure, USD
10.0b
18.0b
Impaired glucose tolerance (20-79 years)
Regional prevalence
9.8
11.3
Age-standardised 
prevalence
11.5
13.7
Number of people  
with impaired  
glucose tolerance
57.0m
135m
Impaired fasting glucose (20-79 years)
Regional prevalence
6.5
7.4
Age-standardised 
prevalence
6.6
7.4
Number of people  
with impaired  
glucose tolerance
38m
88m
Undiagnosed diabetes (20-79 years)
Regional proportion
72.6%
Number of people with 
undiagnosed diabetes
18m
Type 1 diabetes (all age groups)
Number of people with 
type 1 diabetes
352,000
Top 5 countries
2024
2050
Top five countries for number of people  
with diabetes (20-79 years)
Nigeria
3.0m
6.6m
United Republic  
of Tanzania
2.9m
7.6m
Democratic Republic  
of the Congo
2.9m
7.3m
South Africa
2.3m
4.0m
Ethiopia
2.3m
6.0m
Top five countries for age-standardised prevalence  
of people with diabetes (20-79 years)
Sao Tome and Principe
12.1%
13.7%
Comoros
10.8%
12.7%
Zambia
10.3%
12.5%
United Republic  
of Tanzania
9.8%
11.2%
Seychelles
10.1%
10.1%
m = million | b = billion
Highlights
  	
●
1 in 20 adults have diabetes — 25 million. 
  	
●
The total number of adults with diabetes  
is predicted to increase by 142% to 60 
million by 2050, the highest percentage 
increase of all IDF Regions.
  	
●
4 in 5 (73%) adults living with diabetes  
are undiagnosed, the highest proportion 
of all IDF Regions.
  	
●
Diabetes was responsible for 216,000  
deaths in 2024.
  	
●
Africa has the lowest diabetes-related 
expenditure (USD 10 billion) associated  
with diabetes, 1% of global expenditure.
  	
●
1 in 7 live births are affected by 
hyperglycaemia in pregnancy.
IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org  |  75 


=== PAGE 81 ===
0.0
5.0
10.0
15.0
20.0
25.0
30.0
20-24
25-29
30-34
35-39
40-44
45-49
50-54
55-59
60-64
65-69
70-74
75-79
Prevalence (%)
Age (years)
Women
Men
Estimates were produced for 60 countries and 
territories in the IDF Europe (EUR) Region. A total of 
71 data sources from 41 countries met our inclusion 
criteria and were used to generate the diabetes 
estimates for adults in the Region. Estimates for 
nine countries (Bulgaria, United Kingdom, Russian 
Federation, Lithuania, Denmark, Israel, Italy, United 
Kingdom, Uzbekistan) were based on studies 
conducted within the past five years.
The estimated diabetes prevalence (9.8%) and the 
number of people with diabetes (66 million) in the 
EUR Region will see a 10% increase by 2050. The EUR 
Region has the highest number of people with type 
1 diabetes (2.7 million), 15% of whom are people <20 
years (419,000). In 2024, an estimated 193 billion USD 
was spent on diabetes in the EUR Region, representing 
19% of the total spent worldwide. The Region has the 
second highest average cost per person with diabetes 
(USD 2,951). 
Map 4.2 Age-standardised prevalence (%) of diabetes (20–79 years), IDF Europe  
Region 2024.
Diabetes in Europe
2024
Figure 4.2 Estimated prevalence (%) of diabetes by age and sex, IDF Europe Region 2024.
<5%
5-<6%
6-<7%
7-<8%
≥8%
76  |  IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org


=== PAGE 82 ===
At a glance
2024
2050
Adult population  
(20-79 years)
672m
659m
Diabetes (20-79 years)
Regional prevalence
9.8%
11.0%
Age-standardised 
prevalence
8.0%
9.4%
Number of people with 
diabetes (20-79 years)
66m
72m
Number of deaths  
due to diabetes  
(20-79 years)
433,000
Healthcare expenditure due to diabetes (20-79 years)
Total healthcare 
expenditure, USD
193b
179b
Impaired glucose tolerance (20-79 years)
Regional prevalence
6.8%
7.0%
Age-standardised 
prevalence
5.9%
6.2%
Number of people  
with impaired  
glucose tolerance
45.9m
46.2m
Impaired fasting glucose (20-79 years)
Regional prevalence
5.9%
6.0%
Age-standardised 
prevalence
5.3%
5.7%
Number of people  
with impaired  
glucose tolerance
39.7m
40.4m
Undiagnosed diabetes (20-79 years)
Regional proportion
33.6%
Number of people with 
undiagnosed diabetes
22m
Type 1 diabetes (all age groups)
Number of people with 
type 1 diabetes 
2.7m
Top 5 countries
2024
2050
Top five countries for number of people  
with diabetes (20-79 years)
Turkey
9.6m
14.1m
Russian Federation
7.6m
7.7m
Germany
6.5m
6.1m
Italy
5.0m
4.7m
Spain
4.7m
4.9m
Top five countries for age-standardised prevalence  
of people with diabetes (20-79 years)
Turkey
16.5%
18.6%
Montenegro
10.7%
12.3%
Albania
10.6%
12.3%
Portugal
10.5%
12.2%
Croatia
10.5%
12.2%
Highlights
  	
●
1 in 10 adults have diabetes – 66 million. 
  	
●
1 in 3 (34%) adults living with diabetes  
are undiagnosed. 
  	
●
1 in 7 live births are affected by 
hyperglycaemia in pregnancy. 
  	
●
The Region has the highest  
number of people with type 1 diabetes  
(2.7 million). 
  	
●
Diabetes-related expenditure totals USD 
193 billion – 19% of global expenditure. 
  	
●
The Region has the second highest 
average cost per person with diabetes  
(20-79 years) – USD 2,951.
m = million | b = billion
IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org  |  77 


=== PAGE 83 ===
Diabetes in Middle-East and North Africa
2024
Estimates were made for 21 countries and territories 
in the IDF Middle-East and North Africa (MENA) 
Region. A total of 34 data sources from 18 countries 
were used to estimate diabetes prevalence among 
adults aged between 20 and 79 years. Three countries: 
Islamic Republic of Iran, State of Palestine and Jordan 
had studies conducted within the past five years. 
The MENA Region has the highest regional prevalence 
at 17.6% and the second highest expected increase 
(92%) in the number of people with diabetes, reaching 
a predicted 163 million by 2050. The MENA Region has 
1.4 million people with type 1 diabetes. The Region 
has the highest percentage (21.6%) of diabetes-
related deaths in people of working age (<60 years). 
Despite being home to 14.4% of people with diabetes 
worldwide, only 35 billion USD was spent on diabetes 
in the Region, representing 3.4% of the total  
invested worldwide.
Map 4.3 Age-standardised prevalence (%) of diabetes (20–79 years), IDF Middle-East and North 
Africa Region 2024.
0.0
5.0
10.0
15.0
20.0
25.0
30.0
35.0
40.0
20-24
25-29
30-34
35-39
40-44
45-49
50-54
55-59
60-64
65-69
70-74
75-79
Prevalence (%)
Age (years)
Women
Men
Figure 4.3 Estimated prevalence (%) of diabetes by age and sex, Middle-East and North Africa 
Region 2024.
<8%
8-<10%
10-<12%
≥12%
78  |  IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org


=== PAGE 84 ===
Highlights
  	
●
1 in 6 adults has diabetes – 85 million.  
The highest proportion of all IDF Regions. 
  	
●
The number of adults with diabetes 
is predicted to increase by 92% to 163 
million by 2050 – the second highest 
increase of all IDF Regions. 
  	
●
1 in 3 adults living with diabetes  
are undiagnosed. 
  	
●
The Region has the highest diabetes 
prevalence in older adults (32.3%). 
  	
●
Diabetes-related expenditure totals  
USD 35 billion in 2024. 
  	
●
1 in 5 live births are affected by 
hyperglycaemia in pregnancy.
At a glance
2024
2050
Adult population  
(20-79 years)
480m
773m
Diabetes (20-79 years)
Regional prevalence
17.6%
21.0%
Age-standardised 
prevalence
19.9%
22.8%
Number of people with 
diabetes (20-79 years)
85m
163m
Number of deaths  
due to diabetes  
(20-79 years)
467,000
Healthcare expenditure due to diabetes (20-79 years)
Total healthcare 
expenditure, USD
35b
50b
Impaired glucose tolerance (20-79 years)
Regional prevalence
10.4%
11.0%
Age-standardised 
prevalence
11.0%
11.6%
Number of people  
with impaired  
glucose tolerance
50m
85m
Impaired fasting glucose (20-79 years)
Regional prevalence
7.5%
8.1%
Age-standardised 
prevalence
8.0%
8.4%
Number of people  
with impaired  
glucose tolerance
36m
62m
Undiagnosed diabetes (20-79 years)
Regional proportion
37.2%
Number of people with 
undiagnosed diabetes
32m
Type 1 diabetes (all age groups)
Number of people with 
type 1 diabetes 
1.4m
Top 5 countries
2024
2050
Top five countries for number of people  
with diabetes (20-79 years)
Pakistan
35.0m
70.0m
Egypt
13.0m
25.0m
Islamic Republic of Iran
5.5m
8.2m
Saudi Arabia
5.3m
9.5m
Algeria
4.8m
7.9m
Top five countries for age-standardised prevalence  
of people with diabetes (20-79 years)
Pakistan
31.4%
34.2%
Kuwait
25.6%
28.2%
Qatar
24.6%
27.0%
Saudi Arabia
23.1%
25.4%
Egypt
22.4%
25.7%
m = million | b = billion
IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org  |  79 


=== PAGE 85 ===
Diabetes in North America and Caribbean
2024
Estimates were made for Canada, Mexico, the United 
States of America and 22 Caribbean countries and 
territories in the IDF North America and Caribbean 
(NAC) Region. Estimates for diabetes in adults in the 
Region were based on 21 data sources, representing 
15 of the 22 countries. Estimates for Mexico and USA 
were based on studies conducted within the past  
five years. 
The NAC Region has the second highest diabetes 
prevalence among IDF Regions at 15.1%. IDF projects 
that the number of people with diabetes in the NAC 
Region will increase by 22%, to reach 68 million by 
2050. The NAC Region has the second highest number 
of people with type 1 diabetes – 1.9 million in total. 
The NAC Region has the highest proportion (21.4%) of 
diabetes-related mortality to all-cause mortality and 
the second highest number of deaths due to diabetes 
(526,000) among IDF Regions. The NAC Region has the 
highest diabetes-related expenditure (USD 439 billion), 
43% of global expenditure, and has the highest 
average cost per person with diabetes (20–79 years)  
at USD 7,811.
Map 4.4 Age-standardised prevalence 
(%) of diabetes (20–79 years), IDF North 
America and Caribbean Region 2024.
0.0
5.0
10.0
15.0
20.0
25.0
30.0
35.0
40.0
20-24
25-29
30-34
35-39
40-44
45-49
50-54
55-59
60-64
65-69
70-74
75-79
Prevalence (%)
Age (years)
Women
Men
Figure 4.4 Estimated prevalence (%) of diabetes by age and sex, IDF North America and 
Caribbean Region 2024.
<10%
10-<11%
11-<12%
≥12%
80  |  IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org


=== PAGE 86 ===
Highlights
  	
●
1 in 7 adults have diabetes – 56 million. 
  	
●
The Region has the second highest 
diabetes prevalence (15.1%) of all  
IDF Regions. 
  	
●
1 in 3 adults living with diabetes  
are undiagnosed. 
  	
●
The Region has the highest diabetes-
related expenditure (USD 439 billion),  
43% of global expenditure.
  	
●
The Region has the highest proportion  
of diabetes-related mortality, 21.4%.
  	
●
The Region has the second highest 
number of people with type 1 diabetes  
– 1.9 million in total. 
  	
●
The Region has the highest average cost 
per person with diabetes (20-79 years)  
– USD 7,811. 
  	
●
1 in 4 live births are affected by 
hyperglycaemia in pregnancy, the second 
highest prevalence among all IDF regions.
At a glance
2024
2050
Adult population  
(20-79 years)
373m
415m
Diabetes (20-79 years)
Regional prevalence
15.1%
16.4%
Age-standardised 
prevalence
13.8%
15.3%
Number of people with 
diabetes (20-79 years)
56m
68m
Number of deaths  
due to diabetes  
(20-79 years)
526,000
Healthcare expenditure due to diabetes (20-79 years)
Total healthcare 
expenditure, USD
439b
446b
Impaired glucose tolerance (20-79 years)
Regional prevalence
12.5%
13.3%
Age-standardised 
prevalence
11.6%
12.6%
Number of people  
with impaired  
glucose tolerance
47m
55m
Impaired fasting glucose (20-79 years)
Regional prevalence
14.2%
14.8%
Age-standardised 
prevalence
13.6%
14.3%
Number of people  
with impaired  
glucose tolerance
53m
62m
Undiagnosed diabetes (20-79 years)
Regional proportion
29.1%
Number of people with 
undiagnosed diabetes
16m
Type 1 diabetes (all age groups)
Number of people with 
type 1 diabetes
1.9m
Top 5 countries
2024
2050
Top five countries for number of people  
with diabetes (20-79 years)
United States  
of America
39.0m
43.0m
Mexico*
14.0m
20.0m
Canada
2.8m
3.3m
Haiti
542.0t
884.0t
Jamaica
236.0t
329.0t
Top five countries for age-standardised prevalence  
of people with diabetes (20-79 years)
Mexico
16.4%
18.0%
Guyana
16.4%
17.9%
Belize
14.1%
14.9%
St Kitts and Nevis
13.8%
15.8%
Suriname
13.8%
15.2%
t = thousand | m = million | b = billion
*At the time of analysing the data for this edition, Mexico was included in the country listing for the IDF NAC Region. 
The country will be listed among the countries in the IDF SACA Region for future editions.
IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org  |  81 


=== PAGE 87 ===
Diabetes in South and Central America
2024
Estimates were made for 19 countries and 
territories in the IDF South and Central 
America (SACA) Region. Estimates for 
diabetes prevalence in adults aged 20–79 
years were based on 29 data sources from 
15 countries. Five countries: Brazil, Peru, 
Brazil, Panama and Bolivia had studies 
conducted within the past five years. 
IDF projects that the number of people with 
diabetes in the SACA Region will increase by 
46%, reaching 52 million by 2050. Over the 
same period, the prevalence of diabetes will 
increase by 23%, reaching 12.3%. In 2024, 
81 billion USD was spent on diabetes in 
the SACA Region, representing 8% of total 
expenditure worldwide.
Map 4.5 Age-standardised prevalence (%) 
of diabetes (20–79 years), IDF South and 
Central America Region 2024.
0.0
5.0
10.0
15.0
20.0
25.0
30.0
20-24
25-29
30-34
35-39
40-44
45-49
50-54
55-59
60-64
65-69
70-74
75-79
Prevalence (%)
Age (years)
Women
Men
Figure 4.5 Estimated prevalence (%) of diabetes by age and sex, IDF South and Central America 
Region 2024.
<6%
6-<7%
7-<8%
8-<9%
≥9%
82  |  IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org


=== PAGE 88 ===
Highlights
  	
●
1 in 10 adults have diabetes – 35 million. 
  	
●
The number of adults with diabetes  
is expected to increase by 46% to 52 
million by 2050. 
  	
●
1 in 3 adults living with diabetes  
(30.4%) are undiagnosed.
  	
●
Diabetes is responsible for 224,000  
deaths in 2024.
  	
●
797,000 people live with type 1 diabetes. 
  	
●
Diabetes-related expenditure totals  
USD 81 billion in 2024.
  	
●
1 in 6 live births are affected by 
hyperglycaemia in pregnancy.
At a glance
2024
2050
Adult population  
(20-79 years)
355m
420m
Diabetes (20-79 years)
Regional prevalence
10.0%
12.3%
Age-standardised 
prevalence
10.1%
11.5%
Number of people with 
diabetes (20-79 years)
35m
52m
Number of deaths  
due to diabetes  
(20-79 years)
224,000
Healthcare expenditure due to diabetes (20-79 years)
Total healthcare 
expenditure, USD
81b
95b
Impaired glucose tolerance (20-79 years)
Regional prevalence
10.9%
12.4%
Age-standardised 
prevalence
11.0%
12.0%
Number of people  
with impaired  
glucose tolerance
39m
52m
Impaired fasting glucose (20-79 years)
Regional prevalence
9.1%
10.3%
Age-standardised 
prevalence
9.2%
10.0%
Number of people  
with impaired  
glucose tolerance
32m
43m
Undiagnosed diabetes (20-79 years)
Regional proportion
30.4%
Number of people with 
undiagnosed diabetes
11m
Type 1 diabetes (all age groups)
Number of people with 
type 1 diabetes
797,000
Top 5 countries
2024
2050
Top five countries for number of people  
with diabetes (20-79 years)
Brazil
17.0m
24.0m
Argentina
4.3m
5.9m
Colombia
3.0m
4.3m
Chile
1.9m
2.4m
Venezuela
1.6m
2.4m
Top five countries for age-standardised prevalence  
of people with diabetes (20-79 years)
Dominican Republic
17.6%
19.9%
Argentina
14.0%
15.4%
Guatemala
13.2%
13.8%
El Salvador
12.7%
14.8%
Chile
12.2%
13.7%
m = million | b = billion
IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org  |  83 


=== PAGE 89 ===
Diabetes in South-East Asia
2024
Estimates were made for the seven countries and 
territories in the IDF South-East Asia (SEA) Region. 
All countries except Bhutan had primary data 
sources, which were used to generate estimates  
for diabetes in adults aged 20–79 years. A total of 
nine data sources from these six countries were 
used. Estimates for Mauritius, India and Sri Lanka 
were based on studies conducted within the past 
five years. 
IDF projects that the number of people with 
diabetes in the SEA Region will increase by 73%, 
reaching 185 million by 2050. Over the same period, 
the prevalence of diabetes will increase 36% to reach 
13.2%. The proportion of undiagnosed diabetes 
is the third highest of the seven IDF Regions at 
42.7%. The proportion of pregnancies affected by 
hyperglycaemia is also the highest at 27.8%.
Only 12 billion USD was spent on diabetes in the SEA 
Region, representing a mere 1% of the total spent 
worldwide, despite the region being home to 18.2% 
of people with diabetes worldwide.
Map 4.6 Age-standardised prevalence (%) 
of diabetes (20–79 years), IDF South-East 
Asia Region 2024.
0.0
5.0
10.0
15.0
20.0
25.0
20-24
25-29
30-34
35-39
40-44
45-49
50-54
55-59
60-64
65-69
70-74
75-79
Prevalence (%)
Age (years)
Women
Men
Figure 4.6 Estimated prevalence (%) of diabetes by age and sex, IDF South-East Asia Region 2024.
<9%
9-<10%
≥10%
84  |  IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org


=== PAGE 90 ===
Highlights
  	
●
1 in 10 adults have diabetes – 107 million. 
  	
●
India accounts for 1 in 7 of all adults  
living with diabetes worldwide. 
  	
●
The number of adults living with  
diabetes is predicted to increase by  
73% to 185 million by 2050. 
  	
●
Almost 1 in 2 (42.7%) adults living  
with diabetes are undiagnosed.
  	
●
Diabetes was responsible for an estimated 
374,000 deaths in 2024. 
  	
●
Total diabetes-related expenditure in  
the Region amounts to USD 12 billion – 
the second lowest of all IDF Regions. 
  	
●
1 in 3 live births are affected by 
hyperglycaemia in pregnancy.
At a glance
2024
2050
Adult population  
(20-79 years)
1.1b
1.4b
Diabetes (20-79 years)
Regional prevalence
9.7%
13.2%
Age-standardised 
prevalence
10.8%
13.0%
Number of people with 
diabetes (20-79 years)
106.9m
184.5m
Number of deaths  
due to diabetes  
(20-79 years)
374,000
Healthcare expenditure due to diabetes (20-79 years)
Total healthcare 
expenditure, USD
11.5b
17.5b
Impaired glucose tolerance (20-79 years)
Regional prevalence
13.3%
14.7%
Age-standardised 
prevalence
13.8%
14.6%
Number of people  
with impaired  
glucose tolerance
145.7m
204.9m
Impaired fasting glucose (20-79 years)
Regional prevalence
11.8%
12.9%
Age-standardised 
prevalence
12.2%
12.8%
Number of people  
with impaired  
glucose tolerance
129.4m
180.9m
Undiagnosed diabetes (20-79 years)
Regional proportion
42.7%
Number of people with 
undiagnosed diabetes
46m
Type 1 diabetes (all age groups)
Number of people with 
type 1 diabetes
1m
Top 5 countries
2024
2050
Top five countries for number of people  
with diabetes (20-79 years)
India
90.0m
157.0m
Bangladesh
14.0m
23.0m
Sri Lanka
1.6m
1.9m
Nepal
1.3m
2.4m
Mauritius
218.0t
248.0t
Top five countries for age-standardised prevalence of 
people with diabetes (20-79 years)
Mauritius
20.1%
23.5%
Bangladesh
13.2%
15.4%
Bhutan
12.0%
13.8%
India
10.5%
12.8%
Sri Lanka
10.2%
12.0%
t = thousand | m = million | b = billion
IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org  |  85 


=== PAGE 91 ===
Diabetes in Western Pacific 
2024
Estimates were made for 37 countries and 
territories in the IDF Western Pacific (WP) Region. 
For this edition of the IDF Diabetes Atlas, 40 data 
sources from 28 countries were used to generate 
estimates of diabetes in adults aged 20–79 years. 
Estimates for Australia, Vietnam, Republic of 
Korea, Singapore, Malaysia and Mongolia were 
based on studies conducted within the past  
five years. 
The WP Region accounts for over a third (37%)  
of the total number of adults living with diabetes. 
The WP Region has the third highest prevalence of 
diabetes (12.4%) in the world. IDF projects that the 
number of people with diabetes in the WP Region 
will increase by 18%, reaching 254 million by 2050, 
and that the prevalence of diabetes will increase 
by 19% to reach 14.7% in 2050. The proportion of 
undiagnosed diabetes (50%) is the second highest 
of all IDF Regions. Diabetes is responsible for 1.2 
million deaths in 2024, the highest number of all 
IDF Regions. Diabetes-related expenditure in  
2024 totals USD 246 billion, the second highest  
of all IDF Regions and representing 24% of  
global expenditure. 
Map 4.7 Age-standardised prevalence (%) 
of diabetes (20–79 years), IDF Western 
Pacific Region 2024.
0.0
5.0
10.0
15.0
20.0
25.0
30.0
20-24
25-29
30-34
35-39
40-44
45-49
50-54
55-59
60-64
65-69
70-74
75-79
Prevalence (%)
Age (years)
Women
Men
Figure 4.7 Estimated prevalence (%) of diabetes by age and sex, IDF Western Pacific Region 2024.
<8%
8-<10%
10-<12%
≥12%
86  |  IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org


=== PAGE 92 ===
Highlights
  	
●
1 in 8 adults have diabetes – 215 million. 
  	
●
The Region accounts for over a third  
(37%) of the total number of adults living  
with diabetes. 
  	
●
China accounts for 1 in 4 of all adults 
living with diabetes worldwide. 
  	
●
Half (50%) of adults living with diabetes  
in the Region are undiagnosed.
  	
●
Diabetes was responsible for 1.2 million 
deaths in 2024 – the highest number of  
all IDF Regions. 
  	
●
Diabetes-related expenditure in 2024 
totals USD 246 billion – 24% of global 
expenditure. 
  	
●
1 in 5 live births are affected by 
hyperglycaemia in pregnancy.
At a glance
2024
2050
Adult population  
(20-79 years)
1.74b
1.72b
Diabetes (20-79 years)
Regional prevalence
12.4%
14.7%
Age-standardised 
prevalence
11.1%
12.8%
Number of people with 
diabetes (20-79 years)
215m
254m
Number of deaths  
due to diabetes  
(20-79 years)
1.2m
Healthcare expenditure due to diabetes (20-79 years)
Total healthcare 
expenditure, USD
246.3b
237.7b
Impaired glucose tolerance (20-79 years)
Regional prevalence
14.4%
15.5%
Age-standardised 
prevalence
13.5%
14.3%
Number of people  
with impaired  
glucose tolerance
251m
268m
Impaired fasting glucose (20-79 years)
Regional prevalence
9.1%
9.9%
Age-standardised 
prevalence
8.6%
9.2%
Number of people  
with impaired  
glucose tolerance
160m
171m
Undiagnosed diabetes (20-79 years)
Regional proportion
50.0%
Number of people with 
undiagnosed diabetes
108m
Type 1 diabetes (all age groups)
Number of people with 
type 1 diabetes
991,000
Top 5 countries
2024
2050
Top five countries for number of people  
with diabetes (20-79 years)
China
148.0m
168.3m
Indonesia
20.4m
28.6m
Japan
10.1m
9.4m
Thailand
6.4m
6.6m
Republic of Korea
5.0m
5.1m
Top five countries for age-standardised prevalence  
of people with diabetes (20-79 years)
Marshall Islands
25.7%
28.7%
Samoa
25.4%
27.2%
Kiribati
24.6%
28.5%
French Polynesia
22.8%
23.9%
New Caledonia
22.0%
23.3%
 m = million | b = billion
IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org  |  87 


=== PAGE 93 ===
Diabetes complications
90	
5.1 Type 2 diabetes and the risk of cardiovascular diseases
92	
5.2 Diabetes and the risk of dementia
95	
5.3 Diabetes-related eye disease
98	
References
5
Ana Alvarez, Spain - Living with type 1 diabetes
88  |  IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org


=== PAGE 94 ===
Key messages:
People with type 2 diabetes are at higher risk of 
cardiovascular diseases, including a 72% higher  
risk of heart attack, a 52% higher risk of stroke,  
and an 84% higher risk of heart failure.
People with diabetes have a 56% higher risk of 
dementia compared with people who do not  
have diabetes.
The earlier someone develops type 2 diabetes,  
the higher their chance of dementia in later life.
Close to one in four adults with diabetes have  
some form of diabetes-related retinopathy.
More than one in ten people with some form of 
diabetes-related retinopathy are at risk of losing  
their vision or have lost it already.
IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org  |  89 


=== PAGE 95 ===
5.1 Type 2 Diabetes and the risk of cardiovascular diseases
Cardiovascular diseases (CVD) are a leading cause of 
illness and death among people with type 2 diabetes 
(T2D).1–3 Diabetes-related metabolic changes include 
elevated blood glucose, increased levels of fat in the 
blood (including high cholesterol and triglycerides), 
high blood pressure, as well as weight gain and a 
build-up of ectopic fat (excess fat within vital tissues 
that do not typically contain it, such as the liver, 
muscles, heart, and pancreas). Together, these 
factors significantly increase the risk of serious heart 
diseases, including heart attack, stroke, and heart 
failure.4 This chapter explores the latest research 
on how T2D might increase the risk of developing 
heart-related diseases, with some additional data 
on cardiovascular risk in people with undiagnosed 
diabetes and pre-diabetes. 
Risk of cardiovascular diseases in people with  
type 2 diabetes
A systematic review of the latest evidence up 
to December 2024 was conducted using major 
databases, including MEDLINE, SCOPUS, and Web  
of Science. The search identified nine studies that met 
our inclusion criteria (i.e. population representative 
studies in people with type 2 diabetes and without 
diabetes who have experienced cardiovascular 
incidents). We selected studies since the last meta-
analysis undertaken by the Emerging Risk Factor 
Collaborative group in 2010. New studies all focused 
on risks in individuals with T2D compared to those 
without and studies that adequately captured 
atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) risk, 
stroke, myocardial infarction and heart failure. Where 
data clearly appeared to be from the same country 
covering similar or overlapping patient populations, 
the latest representative data were included. 
The included studies came from Australia, China, 
Hungary, Italy, Sweden, Taiwan (POC), the UK and  
the US. The studies included a total of over 6.3 million 
individuals. Among these individuals, more than 1.02 
million had T2D with reported CVD incidents. The 
findings from these studies were then pooled  
in a meta-analysis (Figure 5.1).3,5–21
of developing any form 
of CVD
60%
higher 
risk
of myocardial infarction 
(heart attack) 
73%
higher 
risk
of stroke 
54%
higher 
risk
of heart failure 
84%
higher 
risk
Findings from these studies indicate that, compared 
to those without diabetes, people with T2D face:
Considerable differences between the studies reflect, 
in part, adjustments for conventional risk factors, but 
other factors are also likely to be relevant, especially 
in the context of heart failure, which could reflect 
different diagnostic practices across countries. 
Notably, the greater relative risk of CVD events in 
women with diabetes is likely due to the low risk 
in women without diabetes, though absolute risk 
remains higher in men with T2D.22 The absolute 
lifetime risk is, however, substantially greater in 
people who develop T2D when much younger (e.g. 
<40 years) as compared to later in life, linked to far 
greater obesity and longer time to exposure to risk 
factors. In people with pre-diabetes and undiagnosed 
diabetes in the UK, and after adjustment for classical 
risk factors, cardiovascular risks were 11% (2-30%) 
and 20% (4-38%) higher relative to those with normal 
glycaemia (HbA1c <42 mmol/mol), respectively.23
A major limitation of these cardiovascular findings 
is the lack of data from low- and middle-income 
countries (LMICs), making it impossible to estimate 
the true burden of non-fatal CVD among people  
with T2D in these regions.
90  |  IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org


=== PAGE 96 ===
Gaps to be addressed
The IDF Diabetes Atlas highlights critical data gaps 
in the capture of cardiovascular outcome data that 
compare risks in people living with and without 
T2D in LMICs. Studies suggest that individuals with 
diabetes in these countries face a higher risk of 
diabetes-related deaths compared to those in high-
income countries (HICs).2 For instance, the rates of 
heart-related mortality among people with diabetes 
are significantly higher in low-income countries (LICs) 
(5.7 per 1,000 person-years) compared to middle-
income countries (MICs) (2.2) and HICs (1.0).2 These 
disparities highlight the greater risk of adverse 
cardiovascular outcomes in LICs. However, the lack 
of comprehensive data in these regions on non-
fatal outcomes in representative population studies 
limits an understanding of the full extent of diabetes 
cardiovascular complications in these regions, which 
will also be changing over time due to multiple, 
potentially opposing, changes in preventative 
medications versus increases in incidence, especially 
at younger ages. 
To address these gaps, improving data collection  
and strengthening healthcare infrastructure in LMICs 
would be essential. Expanding global surveillance 
systems and investing in targeted healthcare 
interventions will be crucial in mitigating the growing 
impact of diabetes-related cardiovascular diseases in 
these vulnerable populations.
Summary
The evidence reinforces the link between diabetes 
and cardiovascular diseases, emphasising the need 
for early detection, comprehensive management, and 
public health interventions to mitigate the risks. As 
the global prevalence of diabetes continues to rise, 
tackling its cardiovascular complications must  
remain a priority for healthcare systems and  
policymakers worldwide.
Figure 5.1 Meta-analysis of the incidence risk of atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease,  
stroke, myocardial infarction, and heart failure in people with type 2 diabetes versus  
those without diabetes.
IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org  |  91 


=== PAGE 97 ===
5.2 Diabetes and the risk of dementia
Globally, an estimated 57.4 million people currently 
live with dementia. This figure is projected to increase 
to 152.8 million by 2050, largely due to population 
ageing.24 Dementia incidence is expected to increase 
more in low- and-middle-income countries than in 
high-income countries. The most common type of 
dementia is caused by Alzheimer’s disease (65%), 
followed by vascular dementia, which comprises about 
20% of cases. Diabetes has been associated with 
an increased risk of cognitive decline and dementia 
in cohort studies for over 20 years.25 The 2024 
Lancet Commission report on dementia26 estimates 
that diabetes accounts for 2.6% of dementia cases 
globally. Diabetes is associated with midlife obesity, 
and hypertension, which are both risk factors for 
dementia.27 Diabetes also increases the risk of stroke,3 
and dementia occurs in approximately 16.5% of older 
adults within 6-18 months of stroke.28 In general, T2D 
has been shown to have a greater impact on the risk 
of vascular dementia (VaD) than Alzheimer’s disease 
(AD), which is borne out in neuropathological studies 
as well as epidemiological research.29
1.78
1.48
1.56
0
0.5
1
1.5
2
2.5
Midlife (<65 years)
Late life (≥ 65 years)
Combined
Age group
Figure 5.2 Relative risks of dementia in midlife, late life and combined age ranges.
The younger a person 
develops T2D, the higher 
the risk of developing 
dementia in later life.
92  |  IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org


=== PAGE 98 ===
Figure 5.3 Relative risk of vascular dementia (VaD), Alzheimer’s disease (AD) and all-cause 
dementia in people with diabetes.
2.03
1.34
1.56
0
0.5
1
1.5
2
2.5
3
Vascular dementia
Alzheimer's disease
All-cause dementia
Dementia Subtype
Systematic review of current evidence on incidence 
and prevalence of dementia in T2D
The IDF Diabetes Atlas conducted a systematic review 
and meta-analysis of the global literature to obtain 
up-to-date estimates of the risk of dementia in people 
living with diabetes. In order to be included, articles 
had to be population-based, include more than 100 
participants and report data on the diagnosis of 
diabetes and dementia from clinical tests or medical 
records using established criteria. Of 127 articles 
identified, 34 had the required data on both diabetes 
and dementia to be included in the meta-analyses. The 
relative risk of dementia for people with diabetes was 
estimated with mean age < 65 as 1.78 and for studies 
that had a mean age of ≥ 65 as 1.48 (Figure 5.2). 
There were insufficient studies to differentiate by 
age group when considering subtypes of dementia. 
Among the participants in the included studies, people 
with diabetes had a 56% increased risk of all-cause 
dementia. When examined by subtype, they had a 34% 
increased risk of developing Alzheimer’s disease and  
a 103% increased risk of developing vascular  
dementia (Figure 5.3). 
The proportion of dementia cases in the population 
that can be attributed to having diabetes was 
estimated using the IDF Diabetes Atlas prevalence data 
for 2024 and 205030 and the relative risk estimates in 
our meta-analysis using Levin’s equation.31 Map 5.1 
shows the cases of dementia globally attributable to 
diabetes in 2024, and Map 5.2 shows the same figures 
projected for 2050 using data from the IDF Diabetes 
Atlas 11th Edition.
Limitations
Epidemiological studies primarily classify dementia 
subtypes according to clinical symptoms and not 
biomarkers. Hence there is likely some degree of 
misclassification of AD, and VaD. In addition, many 
older adults have mixed pathology. Diabetes may lead 
to shorter life expectancy due to other conditions such 
as heart disease and stroke, which means that the 
meta-analysis did not account for competing causes  
of death. There are modifiable risk factors for 
dementia and diabetes, as well as emerging risk 
factors that were not considered in the cohort studies 
which provided the data.
IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org  |  93 


=== PAGE 99 ===
Map 5.1 The proportion of dementia cases in the population attributed to diabetes, in 2024.
Map 5.2 The proportion of dementia cases in the population attributed to diabetes, in 2050.
Summary
Diabetes is a risk factor for dementia occurring both 
beyond and before age 65 years. The younger a 
person develops T2D, the higher the risk of developing 
dementia in later life. A recent study has indicated 
that for each year earlier that T2D is diagnosed, the 
individual’s risk of developing dementia increases 
by 1.9%.32 Diabetes is a cause of vascular disease, 
the occurrence of which depends in part on lifestyle 
factors. Thus, vascular dementia risk associated with 
diabetes may be potentially modifiable. Intensive 
preventive efforts using all available interventions are 
required to prevent the enormous global burden of 
disease that is projected from diabetes and dementia 
with population ageing. 
<3%
3-<5%
5-<8%
8-<10%
10-<15%
No estimates
<3%
3-<5%
5-<8%
8-<10%
10-<15%
No estimates
94  |  IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org


=== PAGE 100 ===
5.3 Diabetes-related eye disease
The adoption of various methods for detecting and 
defining the severity of diabetes-related retinopathy 
(DR), including maculopathy, has compounded the 
difficulty of generalising the extent of the problem 
globally.33,34 However, reviewers who have attempted 
this task suggest that around 30% of people with 
diabetes show signs of DR, with a proportion below 
10% developing sight-threatening lesions, such as 
proliferative diabetic retinopathy and/or diabetic 
macular oedema.33,35–37 
If left unchecked, the current global prevalence of 
diabetes at 589 million and the anticipated increase  
to 853 million by 2050 presents a monumental 
challenge to global health.38 The number of people 
living with undiagnosed diabetes and the increasing 
prevalence of pre-diabetes39 add to this challenge, 
underscoring a pressing need to take action to 
address the numerous complications associated with 
diabetes. Among the complications, loss of vision is 
one of the most feared. Elevated blood glucose, high 
blood pressure, renal dysfunction, and the duration 
and type of diabetes are potent risk factors.40,41 
Worryingly, there is also evidence for increased 
susceptibility to retinopathy in people who develop 
T2D early in life.42
Since the beginning of this century, important 
advances have been made in both the diagnosis 
and management of diabetes-related eye disease. 
However, the application of these innovations 
has varied considerably both within and between 
countries and regions of the world. 
In the UK, the introduction of systematic  
screening for diabetes-related eye disease, along 
with enhancements in diabetes management, 
has relegated DR as a primary cause of serious 
sight impairment (blindness) in the working-age 
population.43 Progression to referable retinopathy 
rarely occurs within two years in individuals without 
retinopathy or considered to be at low risk. As a 
result, the screening interval has been extended 
beyond yearly to biennially, allowing those with 
more advanced eye disease to be reviewed more 
frequently.44,45 Telemedicine has also had a significant 
positive impact on screening programmes.46,47 
Despite all the progress in screening for DR over  
the last two decades, the Diabetic Retinopathy 
Barometer Study, conducted across41 countries,  
found considerable deficiencies in education of  
people with diabetes, professional training48,49 and 
access to affordable treatment, especially in LMICs, 
and among minority populations where the highest  
disease burden resides.50,51
34
21
30
22
38
13
36
26
23
27
21
25
20
25
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
AFR
EUR
MENA
NAC
SACA
SEA
WP
Prevalence of any diabetic retinopathy (%)
IDF Region
2019
2024
Figure 5.4 The overall global prevalence of any DR per IDF Regions in 201934 and 2024.52
IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org  |  95 


=== PAGE 101 ===
The latest review of the global prevalence of DR, 
restricted to studies published between 2017 and 
2024 where DR was assessed using retinal images, 
includes 42 studies from 21 countries involving a 
total of 707,657 individuals, predominantly living with 
T2D. The IDF Western Pacific (WP) Region contributed 
38% (16/42) of the studies, with seven studies each 
from the IDF Europe (EUR) and North America and 
Caribbean (NAC) Regions, three each from IDF Africa 
(AFR) and Middle East and North Africa (MENA) 
Regions, and one study from the South and Central 
America (SACA) Region. A total of 39 studies recorded 
the presence of any DR, whereas a lesser number 
noted the presence of proliferative retinopathy  
(24/42, 57%), macular oedema (15/42, 36%) and  
sight-threatening DR (27/42, 64%). 
The overall global prevalence of any DR, as 
represented by countries within the studies across 
the seven IDF regions, was 23.0% (95% CI: 20-26%), 
with proliferative DR at 6.0% (95% CI: 3-9%), diabetes 
related macular oedema 5.0% (95% CI: 4-6%), and 
sight-threatening DR at 11.0% (95% CI: 9 to 14%). This 
represents a slight decrease in the prevalence of any 
DR from 27% reported earlier in the IDF Diabetes Atlas 
10th Edition.34 
Any diabetes-related retinopathy
Sight threatening diabetes-related retinopathy
IDF 
Region
Number 
studies
Total  
population
Cases
Modelled 
prevalence 
(95% CI) 
Number 
studies
Total  
population
Cases
Modelled 
prevalence 
(95% CI) 
EUR
6
493,837
59,559
23  (21,26)
4
418,368
6,861
9  (1,23)
WP
16
39,102
9,341
25  (19,31)
10
33,364
3,341
10  (6,15)
SEA
4
62,735
11,555
20  (16,25)
5
63,457
3,529
11  (7,15)
SACA
1
219
54
25  (19,31)
1
219
18
8   (5,12)
NAC
6
107,789
26,068
21  (16,27)
3
58,163
3,588
16  (9,25)
MENA
3
2,505
370
27  (5,59)
2
616
110
19  (6,38)
AFR
3
1,771
451
26  (15,39)
2
1,275
114
7  (0,23)
GLOBAL
39
707,657
107,257
23  (20,26)
27
575,462
17,561
11  (9,14)
Table 5.1 Prevalence the any diabetes-related retinopathy and sight threatening diabetes-related 
retinopathy within the IDF Regions in 2024.52
*Sight Threatening diabetes-related retinopathy - presence of severe non-proliferative retinopathy, proliferative DR, or clinically significant 
macular oedema	
96  |  IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org


=== PAGE 102 ===
A reduction in the prevalence of any DR was seen in 
five IDF regions (AFR, MENA, NAC, SACA, WP), two of 
which (SACA and WP) recorded a decrease of more 
than 10% (12.7% and 11.2%, respectively) (Figure 5.4). 
In contrast, the remaining two regions (EUR and SEA) 
exhibited increases of 2.4% and 7.5%, respectively 
(Figure 5.4). In addition, the current analysis reveals 
a four-fold higher prevalence of proliferative DR than 
seen previously, whereas macular oedema remains 
unchanged at approximately 5%. 
This review further highlights the continuing burden 
of diabetes-related eye disease worldwide52 and the 
inherent difficulties in accurately estimating the global 
prevalence of DR in its various forms, and especially 
when attempting to make meaningful comparisons 
over time. 
Proliferative diabetes-related retinopathy
Diabetes-related macular oedema
IDF 
Region
Number 
studies
Total  
population
Cases
Prevalence 
(95% CI)
Number 
studies
Total  
population
Cases
Prevalence 
(95% CI)
EUR
1
2,272
107
5  (4,6)
0
N/A
WP
9
15,466
437
4  (2,7)
5
5,877
396
9  (6,13)
SEA
4
62,735
11,557
20  (16,25)
3
56,602
2,045
4  (2,6)
SACA
1
219
3
1  (0,4)
1
219
10
5  (2,8)
NAC
6
106,807
2,815
3  (2,4)
4
101,198
2,717
3  (2,4)
MENA
2
2,110
232
11  (10,12)
1
1,889
40
2  (1,3)
AFR
1
739
5
1  (0,2)
1
739
81
11  (9,13)
GLOBAL
24
190,348
15,156
6  (3,9)
15
166,524
5,290
5  (4,6)
Table 5.2 Prevalence the proliferative diabetes-related retinopathy and macular oedema within 
IDF Regions in 2024.52
IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org  |  97 


=== PAGE 103 ===
References
1.	
Rao Kondapally Seshasai, S. et al. Diabetes 
mellitus, fasting glucose, and risk of cause-specific 
death. N Engl J Med 364, 829–841 (2011).
2.	
Anjana, R. M. et al. Contrasting Associations 
Between Diabetes and Cardiovascular Mortality 
Rates in Low-, Middle-, and High-Income 
Countries: Cohort Study Data From 143,567 
Individuals in 21 Countries in the PURE Study. 
Diabetes Care 43, 3094–3101 (2020).
3.	
Emerging Risk Factors Collaboration et al. Diabetes 
mellitus, fasting blood glucose concentration, and 
risk of vascular disease: a collaborative meta-
analysis of 102 prospective studies. Lancet 375, 
2215–2222 (2010).
4.	
Hayward, R. A. et al. Follow-up of glycemic control 
and cardiovascular outcomes in type 2 diabetes.  
N Engl J Med 372, 2197–2206 (2015).
5.	
Malla, G. et al. Does the Association of Diabetes 
With Stroke Risk Differ by Age, Race, and Sex? 
Results From the Reasons for Geographic and 
Racial Differences in Stroke (REGARDS) Study. 
Diabetes Care 42, 1966–1972 (2019).
6.	
Zabala, A. et al. Risk of first stroke in people with 
type 2 diabetes and its relation to glycaemic 
control: A nationwide observational study.  
Diabetes Obes Metab 22, 182–190 (2020).
7.	
Groenewegen, A. et al. Incidence of atrial 
fibrillation, ischaemic heart disease and heart 
failure in patients with diabetes. Cardiovasc. 
diabetol. 20, 123 (2021).
8.	
de Jong, M., Woodward, M. & Peters, S. A. E. 
Diabetes, Glycated Hemoglobin, and the Risk 
of Myocardial Infarction in Women and Men: 
A Prospective Cohort Study of the UK Biobank. 
Diabetes Care 43, 2050–2059 (2020).
9.	
Davis, W. A., Gregg, E. W. & Davis, T. M. E. Temporal 
Trends in Cardiovascular Complications in People 
With or Without Type 2 Diabetes: The Fremantle 
Diabetes Study. J Clin Endocrinol Metab 105, 
dgaa215 (2020).
10.	 Moe, B., Augestad, L. B., Flanders, W. D., Dalen, 
H. & Nilsen, T. I. L. The adverse association 
of diabetes with risk of first acute myocardial 
infarction is modified by physical activity and body 
mass index: prospective data from the HUNT 
Study, Norway. Diabetologia 58, 59–66 (2015).
11.	 Chen, Y.-Y. et al. The impact of diabetes mellitus 
and corresponding HbA1c levels on the future 
risks of cardiovascular disease and mortality: a 
representative cohort study in Taiwan. PLoS One 
10, e0123116 (2015).
12.	 Chen, H.-F., Ho, C.-A. & Li, C.-Y. Risk of heart failure 
in a population with type 2 diabetes versus a 
population without diabetes with and without 
coronary heart disease. Diabetes Obes Metab 21, 
112–119 (2019).
13.	 Larsson, S. C. et al. Type 1 and type 2 diabetes 
mellitus and incidence of seven cardiovascular 
diseases. Int J Cardiol 262, 66–70 (2018).
14.	 Kiss, Z. et al. Dissimilar impact of type 2 diabetes 
on cardiovascular outcomes according to age 
categories: a nationwide population study from 
Hungary. Cardiovasc Diabetol 17, 107 (2018).
15.	 Rawshani, A. et al. Risk Factors, Mortality, and 
Cardiovascular Outcomes in Patients with Type 2 
Diabetes. N Engl J Med 379, 633–644 (2018).
16.	 Monesi, L. et al. Elevated risk of death and 
major cardiovascular events in subjects with 
newly diagnosed diabetes: findings from an 
administrative database. Nutr Metab Cardiovasc  
Dis 24, 263–270 (2014).
17.	 Shah, A. D. et al. Type 2 diabetes and incidence 
of cardiovascular diseases: a cohort study in 
1·9 million people. Lancet Diabetes Endocrinol 3, 
105–113 (2015).
18.	 Bragg, F. et al. Risks and Population Burden of 
Cardiovascular Diseases Associated with Diabetes 
in China: A Prospective Study of 0.5 Million Adults. 
PLoS Med 13, e1002026 (2016).
19.	 Visaria, J. et al. Incidence and Prevalence of 
Microvascular and Macrovascular Diseases and 
All-cause Mortality in Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus: A 
10-year Study in a US Commercially Insured and 
Medicare Advantage Population. Clin Ther 41, 
1522-1536.e1 (2019).
20.	 Muilwijk, M. et al. Contribution of type 2 diabetes 
to all-cause mortality, cardiovascular disease 
incidence and cancer incidence in white Europeans 
and South Asians: findings from the UK Biobank 
population-based cohort study. BMJ Open Diabetes 
Res Care 7, e000765 (2019).
98  |  IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org


=== PAGE 104 ===
21.	 Wang, J. et al. Individual and Combined 
Cardiometabolic Morbidities and the Subsequent 
Risk of Cardiovascular Events in Chinese Adults. J 
Clin Endocrinol Metab 107, e84–e94 (2022).
22.	 Sattar, N., Kennon, B. & White, A. D. Increased 
prevalence of younger onset type 2 diabetes: 
why and what could be done? Lancet Diabetes 
Endocrinol 12, 687–690 (2024).
23.	 Welsh, C. et al. Glycated Hemoglobin, Prediabetes, 
and the Links to Cardiovascular Disease: Data 
From UK Biobank. Diabetes Care 43,  
440–445 (2020).
24.	 GBD 2019 Dementia Forecasting Collaborators. 
Estimation of the global prevalence of dementia 
in 2019 and forecasted prevalence in 2050: an 
analysis for the Global Burden of Disease Study 
2019. Lancet Public Health 7, e105–e125 (2022).
25.	 Allen, K. V., Frier, B. M. & Strachan, M. W. J. The 
relationship between type 2 diabetes and cognitive 
dysfunction: longitudinal studies and their 
methodological limitations. Eur J Pharmacol 490, 
169–175 (2004).
26.	 Livingston, G. et al. Dementia prevention, 
intervention, and care: 2024 report of the Lancet 
standing Commission. Lancet 404, 572–628 (2024).
27.	 Peters, R. et al. Common risk factors for major 
noncommunicable disease, a systematic overview 
of reviews and commentary: the implied potential 
for targeted risk reduction. Ther Adv Chronic Dis 10, 
2040622319880392 (2019).
28.	 Craig, L., Hoo, Z. L., Yan, T. Z., Wardlaw, J. & Quinn, 
T. J. Prevalence of dementia in ischaemic or mixed 
stroke populations: systematic review and meta-
analysis. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry 93,  
180–187 (2022).
29.	 Exalto, L. G., Whitmer, R. A., Kappele, L. J. & 
Biessels, G. J. An update on type 2 diabetes, 
vascular dementia and Alzheimer’s disease.  
Exp Gerontol 47, 858–864 (2012).
30.	 Sun, H. et al. IDF Diabetes Atlas: Global, regional 
and country-level diabetes prevalence estimates 
for 2021 and projections for 2045. Diabetes Res  
Clin Pract 183, 109119 (2022).
31.	 Welberry, H. J., Tisdell, C. C., Huque, M. H. & Jorm, 
L. R. Have We Been Underestimating Modifiable 
Dementia Risk? An Alternative Approach for 
Calculating the Combined Population Attributable 
Fraction for Modifiable Dementia Risk Factors.  
Am J Epidemiol 192, 1763–1771 (2023).
32.	 Qi, X., Zhu, Z., Luo, H., Schwartz, M. D. & Wu, B. 
Age at diagnosis of diabetes, obesity, and the risk 
of dementia among adult patients with type 2 
diabetes. PLoS One 19, e0310964 (2024).
33.	 Pieczynski, J. & Grzybowski, A. Review of Diabetic 
retinopathy Screening Methods and Programmes 
adopted in different parts of the world. European 
Ophthalmic Review 9, 49–55 (2015).
34.	 Thomas, R. L., Halim, S., Gurudas, S., Sivaprasad, 
S. & Owens, D. R. IDF Diabetes Atlas: A review 
of studies utilising retinal photography on the 
global prevalence of diabetes related retinopathy 
between 2015 and 2018. Diabetes Res Clin Pract 
157, 107840 (2019).
35.	 Yau, J. W. Y. et al. Global prevalence and major risk 
factors of diabetic retinopathy. Diabetes Care 35, 
556–564 (2012).
36.	 Teo, Z. L. et al. Global Prevalence of Diabetic 
Retinopathy and Projection of Burden through 
2045: Systematic Review and Meta-analysis. 
Ophthalmology 128, 1580–1591 (2021).
37.	 Hashemi, H. et al. Global and Regional Prevalence 
of Diabetic Retinopathy; A Comprehensive 
Systematic Review and Meta-analysis. SEMIN. 
OPHTHALMOL. 37, 291–306 (2022).
38.	 IDF Diabetes Atlas scientific papers and posters.
https://diabetesatlas.org/scientific-papers- 
and-posters/
39.	 Rooney, M. R. et al. Global Prevalence of 
Prediabetes. Diabetes Care 46, 1388–1394 (2023).
40.	 Frank, R. N. Diabetic retinopathy. N Engl J Med  
350, 48–58 (2004).
41.	 Ting, D. S. W., Cheung, G. C. M. & Wong, T. Y. 
Diabetic retinopathy: global prevalence, major 
risk factors, screening practices and public health 
challenges: a review. Clin Exp Ophthalmol 44, 
260–277 (2016).
IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org  |  99 


=== PAGE 105 ===
42.	 Wong, J., Molyneaux, L., Constantino, M., Twigg, S. 
M. & Yue, D. K. Timing is everything: age of onset 
influences long-term retinopathy risk in type 2 
diabetes, independent of traditional risk factors. 
Diabetes Care 31, 1985–1990 (2008).
43.	 Liew, G., Michaelides, M. & Bunce, C. A comparison 
of the causes of blindness certifications in England 
and Wales in working age adults (16-64 years), 
1999-2000 with 2009-2010. BMJ Open 4,  
e004015 (2014).
44.	 Thomas, R. L. et al. Incidence of diabetic 
retinopathy in people with type 2 diabetes  
mellitus attending the Diabetic Retinopathy 
Screening Service for Wales: retrospective analysis. 
BMJ 344, e874 (2012).
45.	 Leese, G. P. et al. Progression of diabetes retinal 
status within community screening programs 
and potential implications for screening intervals. 
Diabetes Care 38, 488–494 (2015).
46.	 Silva, P. S. & Aiello, L. P. Telemedicine and eye 
examinations for diabetic retinopathy: a time to 
maximize real-world outcomes. JAMA Ophthalmol 
133, 525–526 (2015).
47.	 Das, T., Raman, R., Ramasamy, K. & Rani, P. K. 
Telemedicine in diabetic retinopathy: current 
status and future directions. Middle East Afr J 
Ophthalmol 22, 174–178 (2015).
48.	 Cavan, D. et al. The Diabetic Retinopathy 
Barometer Study: Global perspectives on access to 
and experiences of diabetic retinopathy screening 
and treatment. Diabetes Res Clin Pract 129,  
16–24 (2017).
49.	 Cavan, D. et al. Global perspectives on the 
provision of diabetic retinopathy screening and 
treatment: Survey of health care professionals in 
41 countries. Diabetes Res Clin Pract 143,  
170–178 (2018).
50.	 Tan, T.-E. & Wong, T. Y. Diabetic retinopathy: 
Looking forward to 2030. Front Endocrinol 
(Lausanne) 13, 1077669 (2022).
51.	 Walker, A. F. et al. Interventions to address global 
inequity in diabetes: international progress.  
Lancet 402, 250–264 (2023).
52.	 Thomas, R. et al. IDF Diabetes Atlas: A worldwide 
review of studies utilizing retinal photography to 
screen for diabetic retinopathy from 2017 to 2023 
inclusive (in press). Diab Res and Clin Pract (2025).
100  |  IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org


=== PAGE 106 ===
Appendices
102	
Country summary tables
118	
Abbreviations and acronyms
119	
Glossary
124 
List of figures, maps and tables
IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org  |  101 


=== PAGE 107 ===
Country summary in IDF Africa Region
2024
Africa
Country or territory
Number of  
adults with 
diabetes  
(20–79 years),  
in 1,000s
Diabetes  
prevalence  
adults  
(20-79 years), (%)
Age-adjusted  
comparative 
diabetes  
prevalence  
(20–79 years), (%) 
Proportion of 
undiagnosed  
diabetes  
(20–79 years), %
AFR
24,600
4.2
5.0
73.0
Angola
688.8
4.1
4.9
68.8
Benin
466.8
7.1
8.1
89.8
Botswana
58.2
3.7
4.6
60.5
Burkina Faso
372.3
3.4
4.5
90.4
Burundi
214.1
3.6
4.3
60.2
Cameroon
774.2
5.6
6.9
73.1
Cabo Verde
22.0
5.6
6.8
30.8
Central African Republic
141.1
6.0
7.6
73.1
Chad
464.2
5.9
7.3
73.1
Comoros
39.0
8.6
10.8
47.5
Democratic Republic of the Congo
2,859.8
6.3
7.7
73.1
Djibouti
41.0
5.9
6.5
60.2
Equatorial Guinea
65.6
7.2
8.2
73.1
Eritrea
70.2
3.7
4.4
46.1
Eswatini
40.8
6.1
7.9
61.3
Ethiopia
2,297.3
3.6
4.4
76.4
Gabon
100.9
7.5
8.5
73.1
Gambia
54.0
4.1
5.5
78.7
Ghana
317.4
1.7
2.7
78.7
Guinea
244.6
3.5
4.6
78.7
Guinea-Bissau
39.9
3.7
4.8
78.7
Côte d'Ivoire
529.2
3.7
5.0
78.7
Kenya
813.3
2.8
3.1
53.6
Lesotho
63.3
4.8
6.2
58.2
Liberia
198.1
7.4
9.2
85.1
Madagascar
599.3
3.8
4.6
68.8
Malawi
540.1
5.5
5.7
78.7
Mali
357.4
3.6
4.8
78.7
Mauritania
95.7
4.0
5.2
78.7
Mayotte
6.4
4.1
4.6
68.8
Mozambique
404.5
2.5
3.0
88.6
Namibia
62.8
4.4
5.3
56.4
Niger
505.9
4.5
4.1
78.7
Nigeria
2,988.5
2.8
3.0
78.7
Congo
213.7
7.0
8.1
73.1
Rwanda
130.8
1.8
2.1
85.6
Sao Tome and Principe
12.4
10.7
12.1
73.1
Senegal
251.6
2.9
3.8
78.7
Seychelles
7.4
9.9
9.3
39.7
Sierra Leone
170.0
3.7
4.8
78.7
Somalia
377.6
4.8
5.8
60.2
South Africa
2,324.2
6.1
7.2
70.3
South Sudan
207.4
4.1
4.6
60.2
Togo
177.5
3.9
4.8
80.1
Uganda
369.1
1.7
2.2
61.2
United Republic of Tanzania
2,928.0
9.2
9.8
60.2
Western Sahara
22.3
5.5
5.8
78.7
Zambia
750.4
7.6
10.3
86.0
Zimbabwe
106.5
1.28
1.5
68.8
102  |  IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org


=== PAGE 108 ===
Diabetes-related 
expenditure  
per person  
with diabetes  
(20–79 years), 
(USD)
Total  
diabetes-related 
expenditure  
(20–79 years), 
(USD)
Diabetes-  
related  
deaths  
in adults  
(20–79 years)
Type 1  
diabetes  
across all  
age groups
Age-adjusted 
comparative 
prevalence 
of impaired 
glucose 
tolerance (20–79 
years), (%)
Age-adjusted 
comparative 
prevalence 
of impaired 
fasting glucose 
(20–79 years), 
(%)
414.3
9,931,943,458.2
216,000.0
351,955.0
12.0
7.0
470.3
323,950,519.2
5,113.0
13,960.0
7.4
8.1
130.2
60,754,792.2
3,700.1
4,001.0
9.6
7.4
2,261.4
131,664,518.0
353.0
1,330.0
7.6
4.6
167.7
62,426,663.6
2,573.2
543.0
9.3
7.0
103.1
22,082,446.3
2,058.6
2,856.0
15.8
4.2
252.0
195,127,919.5
5,439.7
8,715.0
9.8
7.9
756.2
16,650,758.5
112.8
215.0
9.8
8.4
236.7
33,388,943.4
1,520.1
243.0
9.5
7.7
110.7
51,395,689.6
6,207.2
1,158.0
9.2
6.4
182.4
7,106,522.7
336.9
343.0
11.5
4.7
80.6
230,517,629.4
25,111.2
23,951.0
9.6
7.9
313.6
12,848,559.1
311.4
1,794.0
24.0
6.5
1,293.9
84,830,484.3
496.5
667.0
9.9
8.7
110.7
7,774,891.6
524.8
6,913.0
20.9
1.7
912.1
37,216,896.2
464.4
423.0
5.5
11.4
96.2
221,036,089.1
13,369.5
16,513.0
17.2
4.6
961.3
96,988,941.6
572.6
979.0
10.2
9.5
109.4
5,912,371.8
397.9
225.0
9.9
9.0
258.8
82,156,351.0
2,328.4
10,189.0
9.8
7.9
164.1
40,126,219.4
2,154.6
1,184.0
9.4
6.8
239.2
9,541,433.2
296.8
182.0
9.5
7.8
342.1
181,068,826.1
5,381.6
9,233.0
9.7
7.6
409.6
333,162,955.3
9,377.0
20,818.0
17.3
4.1
434.2
27,486,725.1
982.4
721.0
5.7
6.2
180.6
35,762,062.7
1,468.4
363.0
9.7
12.8
91.3
54,738,046.5
4,785.6
9,971.0
6.6
7.3
141.1
76,180,418.7
2,960.2
7,196.0
5.4
4.5
170.7
61,005,100.2
2,977.3
1,424.0
9.5
7.8
255.2
24,431,208.8
544.3
462.0
9.8
4.7
17.1
953.0
13.8
5.7
213.1
86,184,701.1
2,306.8
11,476.0
6.6
7.1
2,126.3
133,452,384.2
567.1
1,332.0
6.9
5.8
126.1
63,790,188.9
2,829.7
1,596.0
9.1
6.0
474.8
1,419,060,879.3
40,990.2
59,097.0
9.7
7.6
210.8
45,037,113.1
1,621.8
1,970.0
9.9
8.4
252.6
33,029,254.8
721.3
4,114.0
16.5
4.4
506.5
6,295,337.8
71.8
77.0
10.0
13.9
255.1
64,186,040.9
1,186.4
6,340.0
9.6
2.0
899.9
6,624,636.4
56.2
438.0
9.7
3.9
360.5
61,267,964.6
1,167.7
702.0
9.5
7.7
4,020.0
19,822.0
21.5
5.8
1,978.9
4,599,462,032.3
24,797.9
30,629.0
9.0
4.2
2,413.8
9,362.0
17.0
4.5
174.8
31,026,891.3
1,513.8
696.0
9.5
7.7
222.6
82,153,655.1
2,750.4
18,191.0
18.1
2.0
153.4
449,128,737.6
21,907.7
24,955.0
18.4
11.0
94.6
61.0
10.1
10.4
318.6
239,041,584.3
3,790.8
8,099.0
6.4
10.1
796.6
84,868,073.3
1,091.4
5,473.0
5.1
6.3
IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org  |  103 


=== PAGE 109 ===
Country summary in IDF Europe Region
2024
Europe
Country or territory
Number of  
adults with 
diabetes  
(20–79 years),  
in 1,000s
Diabetes  
prevalence  
adults  
(20-79 years), (%)
Age-adjusted  
comparative 
diabetes  
prevalence  
(20–79 years), (%) 
Proportion of 
undiagnosed  
diabetes  
(20–79 years), %
EUR
65,600
9.8
8.0
34.0
Albania
261.4
12.4
10.6
33.5
Andorra
7.9
12.5
10.1
28.5
Armenia
168.1
8.5
7.7
40.6
Austria
479.4
7.2
5.4
28.5
Azerbaijan
715.3
9.9
10.2
33.9
Belarus
445.4
6.3
5.1
29.1
Belgium
641.6
7.6
5.9
37.0
Bosnia and Herzegovina
316.4
12.9
10.3
33.5
Bulgaria
482.0
9.6
7.4
38.1
Croatia
409.8
13.7
10.5
28.5
Cyprus
106.1
11.1
10.0
36.6
Czechia
765.9
9.8
7.6
16.7
Denmark
354.7
8.2
6.4
22.3
Estonia
83.9
8.8
6.9
48.7
Faroe Islands
2.5
7.0
5.3
31.4
Finland
400.4
9.8
6.9
18.8
France
4,107.0
9.0
6.5
24.1
Georgia
200.7
7.8
6.7
36.9
Germany
6,485.3
10.6
7.8
20.4
Greece
873.8
11.4
8.0
28.5
Greenland
2.0
5.0
4.3
28.5
Guernsey
4.2
8.9
7.6
28.5
Hungary
765.0
10.1
8.3
16.7
Iceland
21.9
8.1
6.9
28.5
Ireland
158.5
4.4
3.6
31.2
Isle of Man
6.4
10.2
7.5
28.5
Israel
616.4
10.8
10.1
28.5
Italy
5,018.4
11.4
7.7
28.5
Jersey
7.6
8.8
7.6
28.5
Kazakhstan
842.3
6.9
6.8
56.7
Kosovo (under UNSC res.1244)
119.6
10.4
10.4
33.5
Kyrgyzstan
263.1
6.8
7.6
56.7
Latvia
126.6
9.6
7.1
28.5
Liechtenstein
2.9
9.7
7.2
28.5
Lithuania
210.6
10.6
7.5
28.5
Luxembourg
33.1
6.7
5.8
26.2
Malta
48.0
11.5
10.0
43.2
Republic of Moldova
165.5
6.8
6.3
36.9
Monaco
2.8
11.4
6.9
28.5
Montenegro
57.8
12.7
10.7
33.5
Netherlands
895.7
6.9
5.0
28.5
North Macedonia
140.8
8.9
7.4
33.5
Norway
246.2
6.1
4.8
28.5
Poland
3,098.6
10.2
8.1
18.9
Portugal
1,094.8
14.3
10.5
43.6
Romania
1,320.0
9.1
7.5
21.4
Russian Federation
7,577.6
7.1
5.9
40.5
San Marino
3.1
12.2
8.6
28.5
Serbia
718.5
13.3
10.5
33.5
Slovakia
393.6
9.1
7.1
28.5
104  |  IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org


=== PAGE 110 ===
Diabetes-related 
expenditure  
per person  
with diabetes  
(20–79 years), 
(USD)
Total  
diabetes-related 
expenditure  
(20–79 years), 
(USD)
Diabetes-  
related  
deaths  
in adults  
(20–79 years)
Type 1  
diabetes  
across all  
age groups
Age-adjusted 
comparative 
prevalence 
of impaired 
glucose 
tolerance (20–79 
years), (%)
Age-adjusted 
comparative 
prevalence 
of impaired 
fasting glucose 
(20–79 years), 
(%)
2,950.9
192,880,787,692.9
433,000.0
2,740,885.0
5.9
5.3
653.2
170,770,833.2
1,120.4
3,497.0
7.5
8.5
3,138.9
24,918,211.5
43.5
9.5
5.5
1,181.1
198,534,698.8
1,125.2
3,382.0
2.8
4.7
6,267.7
3,004,882,944.8
4,452.7
27,042.0
4.3
4.1
483.8
346,056,181.3
4,378.7
9,533.0
3.1
5.3
1,213.2
540,340,717.2
3,660.5
27,792.0
1.9
4.5
5,688.7
3,649,563,678.5
5,377.3
39,326.0
4.2
5.5
1,156.3
365,844,483.7
2,116.4
6,077.0
7.5
8.4
1,864.8
898,947,982.2
3,425.1
9,244.0
1.5
6.2
1,088.3
445,995,047.9
4,657.6
11,399.0
7.5
7.7
2,307.6
244,924,276.3
741.9
2,984.0
6.3
7.6
2,184.6
1,673,241,959.2
4,341.4
33,205.0
2.2
4.0
7,717.7
2,737,744,209.4
3,476.3
30,596.0
10.7
5.6
1,704.4
143,055,162.7
434.2
5,260.0
7.1
4.1
27.9
1.1
5.2
5,118.0
2,049,075,184.1
4,042.1
54,307.0
7.9
4.6
5,478.5
22,500,449,823.6
33,902.9
174,694.0
9.5
5.5
930.3
186,712,560.2
1,510.4
7,291.0
2.9
2.1
6,236.9
40,448,132,549.2
62,716.6
336,936.0
8.3
5.5
1,706.9
1,491,460,097.7
8,271.6
23,699.0
7.4
7.6
40.6
8.0
5.1
33.8
349.0
4.4
5.7
1,396.7
1,068,496,147.1
5,786.4
30,670.0
2.3
3.8
8,054.8
176,657,677.2
165.5
1,406.0
8.5
5.0
7,234.2
1,146,587,524.4
1,465.3
25,659.0
1.4
5.6
56.0
4.3
5.6
4,641.4
2,861,112,399.1
7,059.7
22,819.0
4.4
4.0
3,073.3
15,423,128,121.7
62,364.5
183,782.0
9.6
5.5
74.7
556.0
4.4
5.7
762.2
642,040,133.0
4,848.8
23,273.0
3.9
3.5
1,149.9
2,247.0
7.5
8.4
231.5
60,918,197.1
1,779.4
2,557.0
3.7
4.4
1,290.0
163,375,362.2
735.2
6,921.0
2.5
4.1
19.7
4.4
4.1
1,304.2
274,611,769.2
1,946.8
7,675.0
2.5
4.1
8,026.0
265,337,496.9
247.7
2,327.0
4.3
5.5
2,833.4
136,126,487.7
334.2
2,519.0
9.5
5.5
558.4
92,390,518.4
1,833.5
3,040.0
3.7
4.4
2,690.6
7,420,529.2
16.7
9.4
5.5
383.2
1,663.0
7.5
8.5
6,235.4
5,585,326,123.0
8,574.6
66,784.0
4.3
5.5
952.6
134,140,566.5
938.1
2,292.0
7.5
8.4
10,226.8
2,517,503,425.1
1,367.7
36,351.0
7.8
5.0
1,234.8
3,826,247,143.7
20,326.1
130,658.0
7.9
4.1
2,157.8
2,362,337,321.8
8,729.8
33,353.0
12.0
5.6
900.1
1,188,180,622.6
10,033.6
25,578.0
3.2
4.1
1,835.5
13,908,283,934.9
5,062.4
323,062.0
2.2
4.5
3,720.0
11,715,633.9
15.6
9.4
5.5
1,396.3
1,003,244,301.7
5,213.1
13,487.0
7.5
8.4
1,565.0
615,928,526.7
2,707.4
18,679.0
3.2
4.1
IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org  |  105 


=== PAGE 111 ===
Country summary in IDF Europe Region cont.
2024
Europe
Country or territory
Number of  
adults with 
diabetes  
(20–79 years),  
in 1,000s
Diabetes  
prevalence  
adults  
(20-79 years), (%)
Age-adjusted  
comparative 
diabetes  
prevalence  
(20–79 years), (%) 
Proportion of 
undiagnosed  
diabetes  
(20–79 years), %
Slovenia
153.4
9.7
7.0
28.5
Spain
4,660.2
13.1
9.7
35.5
Sweden
566.6
7.5
5.8
28.5
Switzerland
433.3
6.6
5.3
28.5
Tajikistan
383.5
6.8
8.0
56.7
Türkiye
9,603.1
16.3
16.5
45.5
Turkmenistan
264.1
6.6
7.1
39.5
Ukraine
2,276.8
8.0
6.0
36.9
United Kingdom
4,454.6
9.2
7.4
28.7
Uzbekistan
1501.9
6.9
7.5
74.0
106  |  IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org


=== PAGE 112 ===
Diabetes-related 
expenditure  
per person  
with diabetes  
(20–79 years), 
(USD)
Total diabetes-
related 
expenditure  
(20–79 years), 
(USD)
Diabetes-  
related  
deaths  
in adults  
(20–79 years)
Type 1  
diabetes  
across all  
age groups
Age-adjusted 
comparative 
prevalence 
of impaired 
glucose 
tolerance (20–79 
years), (%)
Age-adjusted 
comparative 
prevalence 
of impaired 
fasting glucose 
(20–79 years), 
(%)
2,349.3
360,439,568.9
1,453.4
5,462.0
7.5
7.7
2,808.9
13,089,885,041.1
22,125.1
189,078.0
7.1
5.5
7,081.1
4,011,914,709.5
4,483.7
82,827.0
8.1
5.0
12,234.2
5,301,343,052.5
2,847.6
20,756.0
4.3
5.5
160.1
61,401,514.0
1,936.3
4,465.0
3.5
4.7
1,005.5
9,656,242,550.9
42,558.2
195,853.0
7.6
8.6
1,664.5
439,649,418.1
1,854.0
3,488.0
3.8
7.7
624.5
1,421,868,149.9
18,003.2
108,643.0
2.5
4.5
5,304.7
23,630,576,669.6
27,193.7
340,794.0
5.4
5.5
210.2
315,706,453.7
7,447.4
15,548.0
3.7
1.4
IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org  |  107 


=== PAGE 113 ===
Country summary in IDF Middle-East and North Africa Region
2024
Middle-East and North Africa
Country or territory
Number of  
adults with 
diabetes  
(20–79 years),  
in 1,000s
Diabetes  
prevalence  
adults  
(20-79 years), (%)
Age-adjusted  
comparative 
diabetes  
prevalence  
(20–79 years), (%) 
Proportion of 
undiagnosed  
diabetes  
(20–79 years), %
MENA
84,700
17.6
19.9
37.2
Afghanistan
1,932.8
9.7
11.7
71.4
Algeria
4,761.8
16.9
17.5
31.7
Bahrain
197.6
17.8
22.1
46.4
Egypt
13,214.5
19.8
22.4
62.0
Iraq
2,669.4
11.0
13.4
47.1
Iran (Islamic Republic of)
5,453.6
8.8
9.0
32.6
Jordan
1,086.5
16.3
20.5
18.6
Kuwait
908.5
28.4
25.6
37.3
Lebanon
439.7
13.6
12.3
26.1
Libya
634.8
14.6
15.8
31.7
Morocco
2,881.0
11.6
11.9
31.7
Oman
412.3
13.2
17.0
50.0
Pakistan
34,532.4
26.5
31.4
26.9
Qatar
409.3
18.7
24.6
46.4
Saudi Arabia
5,344.6
21.4
23.1
43.6
State of Palestine
315.3
11.2
15.5
30.2
Sudan
3,860.6
16.0
19.0
37.3
Syrian Arab Republic
2,246.1
15.7
19.0
26.1
Tunisia
1,392.9
16.6
16.0
31.7
United Arab Emirates
1,274.2
16.5
20.7
64.0
Yemen
720.8
4.1
5.5
22.3
108  |  IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org


=== PAGE 114 ===
Diabetes-related 
expenditure  
per person  
with diabetes  
(20–79 years), 
(USD)
Total diabetes-
related 
expenditure  
(20–79 years), 
(USD)
Diabetes-  
related  
deaths  
in adults  
(20–79 years)
Type 1  
diabetes  
across all  
age groups
Age-adjusted 
comparative 
prevalence 
of impaired 
glucose 
tolerance (20–79 
years), (%)
Age-adjusted 
comparative 
prevalence 
of impaired 
fasting glucose 
(20–79 years), 
(%)
429.1
34,661,252,786.4
467,000.0
1,410,471.0
11.1
8.0
137.8
266,352,048.3
11,641.7
13,600.0
8.7
5.0
653.4
3,111,168,073.4
20,642.0
188,195.0
6.5
6.8
960.9
189,841,149.7
337.9
7,706.0
17.6
16.1
234.9
3,104,049,277.5
72,039.1
191,776.0
18.1
6.3
778.4
2,077,975,623.8
14,683.1
65,550.0
8.6
9.2
1341.8
7,317,829,779.6
23,379.9
134,623.0
8.5
4.0
853.7
927,612,390.0
4,643.9
25,881.0
9.4
2.5
1421.2
1,291,242,801.1
923.2
28,739.0
19.1
16.5
1746.8
768,128,215.8
2,861.4
12,438.0
7.5
7.1
5,164.3
28,085.0
8.1
6.9
453.8
1,307,452,860.2
16,235.0
139,699.0
9.2
11.0
720.6
297,078,595.6
625.0
34,676.0
6.8
14.9
79.3
2,737,622,416.4
226,752.3
24,440.0
9.8
8.5
1439.0
589,002,372.9
364.3
12,862.0
18.1
18.8
1372.5
7,335,543,452.3
8,038.3
222,942.0
17.2
15.1
2,722.7
10,958.0
5.6
6.4
149.2
575,946,852.2
29,268.7
94,809.0
13.2
6.3
13,677.4
42,393.0
8.6
9.0
536.0
746,648,526.0
6,390.7
41,279.0
8.8
6.8
1583.5
2,017,758,351.5
829.9
79,074.0
18.2
17.0
5,997.6
10,746.0
8.6
8.6
IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org  |  109 


=== PAGE 115 ===
Country summary in IDF North America and the Caribbean Region
2024
North America and the Caribbean
Country or territory
Number of  
adults with 
diabetes  
(20–79 years),  
in 1,000s
Diabetes  
prevalence  
adults  
(20-79 years), (%)
Age-adjusted  
comparative 
diabetes  
prevalence  
(20–79 years), (%) 
Proportion of 
undiagnosed  
diabetes  
(20–79 years), %
NAC
56,200.0
15.1
13.8
29.1
Antigua and Barbuda
8.6
12.5
11.6
24.5
Aruba
4.2
5.2
4.6
22.5
Bahamas
26.8
8.9
8.9
24.5
Barbados
34.4
16.4
13.2
23.8
Belize
31.4
12.0
14.1
41.9
Bermuda
8.1
16.7
13.4
26.4
Canada
2,822.1
9.7
7.7
28.9
Cayman Islands
6.2
11.4
11.1
26.4
Curaçao
22.1
15.5
13.4
24.5
Dominica
6.7
12.8
12.9
24.5
Grenada
9.4
11.1
11.3
24.5
Guyana
75.7
14.9
16.4
36.0
Haiti
541.8
7.9
8.5
29.4
Jamaica
235.6
11.6
12.5
24.3
Mexico
13,587.4
15.8
16.4
41.3
Saint Kitts and Nevis
5.0
14.5
13.8
24.5
Saint Lucia
15.2
11.3
11.4
24.5
Saint Vincent and the Grenadines
6.4
9.0
8.6
24.5
Suriname
53.2
13.2
13.8
39.6
Trinidad and Tobago
151.2
13.5
12.4
24.5
United States of America
38,536.4
15.7
13.7
24.8
United States Virgin Islands
8.7
12.5
9.1
26.9
110  |  IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org


=== PAGE 116 ===
Diabetes-related 
expenditure  
per person  
with diabetes  
(20–79 years), 
(USD)
Total diabetes-
related 
expenditure  
(20–79 years), 
(USD)
Diabetes-  
related  
deaths  
in adults  
(20–79 years)
Type 1  
diabetes  
across all  
age groups
Age-adjusted 
comparative 
prevalence 
of impaired 
glucose 
tolerance (20–79 
years), (%)
Age-adjusted 
comparative 
prevalence 
of impaired 
fasting glucose 
(20–79 years), 
(%)
7811.7
438,603,587,491.7
526,000.0
1,853,030.0
11.6
13.6
991.5
8,573,690.0
85.8
71.0
5.6
4.1
17.0
87.0
5.6
4.1
2449.6
65,547,669.2
344.5
341.0
5.6
4.1
1172.2
40,285,229.1
404.6
229.0
5.6
4.1
791.6
24,864,109.2
308.5
391.0
5.2
12.9
37.6
11.6
12.2
4867.8
13,737,322,842.5
23,139.8
243,390.0
11.5
12.2
33.9
11.5
12.2
185.3
115.0
5.5
4.1
1296.7
8,745,588.4
113.9
5.4
4.5
1152.2
10,818,602.7
115.4
93.0
5.2
4.3
360.6
27,285,389.2
1,072.5
405.0
5.6
4.0
241.5
130,843,628.5
6,683.6
4,536.0
5.3
4.5
863.4
203,389,462.0
3,621.5
1,658.0
5.3
4.4
1438.0
19,539,071,826.1
123,364.6
122,731.0
12.9
13.5
1103.4
5,552,250.8
71.7
5.6
4.1
934.2
14,195,630.9
209.4
143.0
5.0
4.2
913.1
5,886,640.5
104.5
72.0
5.3
2.5
1212.8
64,544,131.8
610.6
514.0
12.6
8.9
1230.9
186,073,348.5
1,944.5
1,218.0
5.6
6.5
10497.4
404,530,587,452.5
363,427.0
1,476,859.0
11.5
14.2
133.7
177.0
11.5
12.1
IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org  |  111 


=== PAGE 117 ===
South and Central America
Country or territory
Number of  
adults with 
diabetes  
(20–79 years),  
in 1,000s
Diabetes  
prevalence  
adults  
(20-79 years), (%)
Age-adjusted  
comparative 
diabetes  
prevalence  
(20–79 years), (%) 
Proportion of 
undiagnosed  
diabetes  
(20–79 years), %
SACA
35,400
10.0
10.1
30.4
Argentina
4,342.1
14.1
14.0
29.1
Bolivia (Plurinational State of)
194.0
2.6
3.4
25.5
Brazil
16,621.4
10.7
10.6
31.9
Chile
1,863.7
13.0
12.2
17.1
Colombia
3,033.8
8.3
8.4
16.2
Costa Rica
375.7
10.0
9.8
26.4
Cuba
847.4
10.1
9.4
39.0
Dominican Republic
1,203.7
16.6
17.6
42.8
Ecuador
552.8
4.6
4.9
20.0
El Salvador
463.3
11.2
12.7
23.2
Guatemala
1,103.7
10.5
13.2
48.8
Honduras
259.6
4.0
5.0
51.9
Nicaragua
377.0
8.7
10.4
44.6
Panama
312.8
10.7
11.1
39.8
Paraguay
352.2
8.2
9.4
33.2
Peru
1,335.8
6.0
6.4
25.5
Puerto Rico
345.8
14.1
10.9
26.9
Uruguay
201.5
8.4
7.8
48.9
Venezuela (Bolivarian Republic of)
1,580.7
8.5
8.6
33.6
Country summary in IDF South and Central America Region
2024
112  |  IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org


=== PAGE 118 ===
Diabetes-related 
expenditure  
per person  
with diabetes  
(20–79 years), 
(USD)
Total diabetes-
related 
expenditure  
(20–79 years), 
(USD)
Diabetes-  
related  
deaths  
in adults  
(20–79 years)
Type 1  
diabetes  
across all  
age groups
Age-adjusted 
comparative 
prevalence 
of impaired 
glucose 
tolerance (20–79 
years), (%)
Age-adjusted 
comparative 
prevalence 
of impaired 
fasting glucose 
(20–79 years), 
(%)
2,417.4
80,840,139,260.0
224,000.0
796,838.0
11.0
9.0
3,553.1
15,427,924,938.7
26,163.8
86,977.0
11.6
10.0
1,092.8
211,977,463.7
1,699.7
3,246.0
7.0
8.7
2,714.9
45,125,340,371.2
111,392.9
499,402.0
11.3
9.7
1,600.0
2,982,003,925.8
9,444.9
40,712.0
11.9
4.8
1,909.8
5,794,051,819.7
15,092.0
47,732.0
10.9
9.4
2,913.3
1,094,482,802.4
1,783.6
4,772.0
10.9
9.4
2,877.5
2,438,279,617.1
4,906.7
6,424.0
10.5
9.1
1,353.9
1,629,660,833.4
7,156.8
6,506.0
11.1
9.5
2,204.6
1,218,644,466.4
2,545.1
16,130.0
9.6
8.3
958.3
444,018,847.6
3,655.3
5,316.0
10.5
9.0
839.9
926,959,846.1
6,116.9
15,367.0
8.8
7.5
789.4
204,919,357.7
1,724.7
8,820.0
9.3
8.0
587.0
221,305,928.3
1,854.5
5,315.0
10.3
8.0
1,317.8
412,172,423.6
1,331.7
3,925.0
11.6
4.7
1,474.7
519,375,809.5
2,558.0
5,930.0
9.5
8.2
1,408.0
1,880,823,770.4
7,217.8
19,247.0
10.7
9.2
3,160.8
2,714.0
12.1
4.9
1,529.8
308,197,038.3
1,269.7
3,113.0
12.1
4.9
14,464.6
15,190.0
11.4
9.8
IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org  |  113 


=== PAGE 119 ===
South-East Asia
Country or territory
Number of  
adults with 
diabetes  
(20–79 years),  
in 1,000s
Diabetes  
prevalence  
adults  
(20-79 years), (%)
Age-adjusted  
comparative 
diabetes  
prevalence  
(20–79 years), (%) 
Proportion of 
undiagnosed  
diabetes  
(20–79 years), %
SEA
106,900
9.7
10.8
42.7
Bangladesh
13,877.4
12.3
13.2
39.1
Bhutan
57.3
10.4
12.0
39.9
India
89,826.9
9.5
10.5
43.0
Maldives
30.9
8.4
9.5
28.2
Mauritius
218.1
22.2
20.1
28.2
Nepal
1,259.1
6.6
7.7
70.4
Sri Lanka
1,600.5
10.7
10.2
37.7
Country summary in IDF South-East Asia Region
2024
114  |  IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org


=== PAGE 120 ===
Diabetes-related 
expenditure  
per person  
with diabetes  
(20–79 years), 
(USD)
Total diabetes-
related 
expenditure  
(20–79 years), 
(USD)
Diabetes-  
related  
deaths  
in adults  
(20–79 years)
Type 1  
diabetes  
across all  
age groups
Age-adjusted 
comparative 
prevalence 
of impaired 
glucose 
tolerance (20–79 
years), (%)
Age-adjusted 
comparative 
prevalence 
of impaired 
fasting glucose 
(20–79 years), 
(%)
107.6
11,497,657,846.3
375,000.0
1,005,022.0
13.8
12.2
74.4
1,031,800,822.1
31,619.5
25,520.0
13.5
17.1
374.1
21,420,759.3
155.2
572.0
13.5
10.4
109.5
9,834,399,121.6
334,922.2
940,840.0
13.9
11.7
1,619.3
50,089,665.8
33.1
485.0
11.6
10.3
671.3
146,430,963.8
814.7
4,170.0
11.8
5.7
91.4
115,064,511.1
2,775.8
18,087.0
4.7
5.0
186.5
298,452,002.7
4,159.9
15,348.0
19.2
10.1
IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org  |  115 


=== PAGE 121 ===
Country summary in IDF Western Pacific Region
2024
Western Pacific
Country or territory
Number of  
adults with 
diabetes  
(20–79 years),  
in 1,000s
Diabetes  
prevalence  
adults  
(20-79 years), (%)
Age-adjusted  
comparative 
diabetes  
prevalence  
(20–79 years), (%) 
Proportion of 
undiagnosed  
diabetes  
(20–79 years), %
WP
215,400
12.4
11.1
50.0
Australia
1,693.7
8.85
7.4
28.0
Brunei Darussalam
44.6
13.85
13.7
44.7
Cambodia
723.2
6.8
7.5
50.0
China
147,981.2
13.79
11.9
49.7
Dem. People's Republic of Korea
2,043.5
10.78
9.9
53.5
Micronesia (Fed. States of)
12.1
17.41
19.2
73.2
Fiji
90.3
15.34
16.6
47.5
French Polynesia
51.2
23.47
22.8
32.9
Guam
24.4
21.93
20.3
32.9
China, Hong Kong SAR
706.0
11.91
8.2
54.2
Indonesia
20,426.4
11.0
11.3
73.2
Japan
10,763.5
12.0
8.1
31.3
Kiribati
16.0
21.5
24.6
55.0
Lao People's Democratic Republic
255.1
5.5
6.7
41.9
China, Macao SAR
52.3
9.3
8.1
54.2
Malaysia
4,753.9
19.9
21.1
50.4
Marshall Islands
6.0
24.0
25.7
65.0
Mongolia
208.5
10.0
10.3
74.7
Myanmar
2,365.8
6.4
6.7
49.7
Nauru
1.3
19.1
21.8
32.9
New Caledonia
46.1
22.8
22.0
32.9
New Zealand
292.0
7.8
6.7
25.7
Niue
0.3
21.1
18.1
56.3
Palau
2.7
20.8
19.3
56.3
Papua New Guinea
838.0
14.2
14.1
73.2
Philippines
4,726.3
6.6
7.5
53.5
Republic of Korea
5,030.1
12.2
9.6
28.3
Samoa
28.2
23.7
25.4
83.9
Singapore
699.1
14.1
11.4
37.3
Solomon Islands
38.4
10.0
12.0
80.6
Taiwan, Province of China
2,598.2
13.7
10.7
54.2
Thailand
6,360.8
11.7
10.2
33.3
Timor-Leste
21.6
2.9
3.2
77.5
Tonga
10.1
17.0
19.6
73.2
Tuvalu
1.2
17.9
19.0
56.3
Vanuatu
29.0
16.7
19.7
73.2
Viet Nam
2,499.9
3.6
3.4
37.8
116  |  IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org


=== PAGE 122 ===
Diabetes-related 
expenditure  
per person  
with diabetes  
(20–79 years), 
(USD)
Total diabetes-
related 
expenditure  
(20–79 years), 
(USD)
Diabetes-  
related  
deaths  
in adults  
(20–79 years)
Type 1  
diabetes  
across all  
age groups
Age-adjusted 
comparative 
prevalence 
of impaired 
glucose 
tolerance (20–79 
years), (%)
Age-adjusted 
comparative 
prevalence 
of impaired 
fasting glucose 
(20–79 years), 
(%)
1,173.5
246,342,889,303.4
1,200,000.0
990,990.0
13.5
8.6
5,471.4
9,266,818,019.7
8,294.9
114,545.0
9.4
3.1
816.4
36,378,598.7
447.4
132.0
16.3
2.5
236.4
170,939,731.3
4,983.4
582.0
7.3
7.0
1,141.2
168,882,601,413.0
755,511.4
598,906.0
13.3
9.9
13,503.3
12,247.0
9.7
12.4
835.6
10,100,754.1
91.4
4.0
7.6
11.9
564.5
50,991,991.7
973.8
120.0
7.8
13.7
176.6
14.0
7.8
5.0
294.0
7.0
7.9
5.0
4,552.0
4,435.0
14.9
1.0
308.2
6,296,212,412.0
131,643.8
11,713.0
16.3
7.7
3,155.9
33,968,521,728.8
84,288.1
79,463.0
14.8
5.0
499.4
7,966,913.5
106.5
4.0
7.8
12.4
190.6
48,609,643.8
1,784.6
138.0
10.0
2.4
352.4
462.0
14.9
5.2
1,052.5
5,003,555,184.7
21,796.3
10,275.0
16.3
5.9
1,589.4
9,564,067.0
39.3
7.9
13.8
505.5
105,399,492.2
1,165.4
1,373.0
8.8
18.5
164.1
388,127,700.6
19,968.3
1,739.0
10.1
7.2
1,331.0
1,693,645.6
14.0
8.0
6.4
318.9
13.0
7.9
5.0
4,232.3
1,235,884,639.8
1,964.8
17,474.0
9.4
5.0
3,010.3
777,033.3
0.3
7.9
12.6
3,858.2
10,279,127.6
21.9
7.8
14.0
154.4
129,418,207.3
4,516.4
333.0
7.5
11.5
454.5
2,148,007,104.9
35,309.9
29,870.0
6.6
2.6
2,312.1
11,630,291,893.8
33,204.5
32,615.0
14.8
8.8
420.1
11,837,150.2
146.4
7.0
7.0
24.2
2,444.9
1,709,175,241.8
4,013.2
3,931.0
14.7
5.0
262.6
10,079,696.6
234.5
28.0
7.6
12.4
25,980.0
26,707.0
14.8
5.0
647.2
4,116,695,867.4
34,752.6
20,689.0
15.9
7.6
365.8
7,890,377.8
122.5
49.0
10.1
7.2
444.1
4,473,027.6
64.9
4.0
8.8
1.5
1,772.3
2,136,602.0
8.5
7.7
13.5
255.6
7,417,862.7
150.8
11.0
7.6
11.9
428.4
1,071,044,173.8
7,563.4
23,100.0
15.4
3.6
IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org  |  117 


=== PAGE 123 ===
Abbreviations and Acronyms
A 
ADA 	
American Diabetes 	
	
	
Association 
AHP 	
analytical hierarchy process 
AFR 	
IDF Africa Region 
ARDS 	
acute respiratory distress 	
	
syndrome 
AD 	
Alzheimer’s disease
B 
BP 	
blood pressure 
C 
CVD 	
cardiovascular diseases 
CI  
confidence intervals
D
DIP 	
diabetes in pregnancy 
DKA 	
diabetic ketoacidosis 
DR 	
diabetes-related  
	
retinopathy
E
EUR 	
IDF Europe Region 
F 
FBG 	
fasting blood glucose 
FPG 	
fasting plasma glucose
FIGO 	
International Federation  
	
of Gynaecology and 	
	
	
Obstetrics 
G 
GDM 	
gestational diabetes 	
	
	
mellitus 
GDP 	
gross domestic product
GLP-1 	 glucagon-like peptide 1
H 
HAPO 	
hyperglycaemia  
	
and adverse  
	
pregnancy outcomes 
HbA1c 	
haemoglobin A1c  
	
(or glycosylated  
	
haemoglobin) 
HDL 	
high-density lipoprotein 
HIP 	
hyperglycaemia  
	
in pregnancy 
I 
IADPSG 	 International Association  
	
of Diabetes and  
	
Pregnancy Study Group 
ID 	
international dollar 
IDF 	
International Diabetes  
	
Federation 
IFG 	
impaired fasting glucose 
IGT 	
impaired glucose  
	
tolerance
IMR 	
infant mortality rate 
L
LDL-C 	
low-density lipoprotein  
	
cholesterol 
M
MENA 	
IDF Middle East and North 
	
Africa Region 
mg/dL 	
milligrams per decilitre 
mmol/L	 millimoles per litre mmol/ 
	
mol millimoles per mole 
MODY 	
maturity onset diabetes  
	
of the young 
N 
NAC 	
IDF North America and  
	
Caribbean Region 
O
OGTT 	 oral glucose tolerance test 
S 
SACA 	
IDF South and Central  
	
America Region 
STEPS 	 WHO STEPwise approach  
	
to surveillance 
T 
T1D 	
type1 diabetes 
T2D 	
type2 diabetes 
U 
UHC 	
universal health coverage 
UN 	
United Nations 
UNPD 	 United Nations Population  
	
Division USD United  
	
States dollar 
V
VaD 	
vascular dementia 
W 
WDD 	
World Diabetes Day 
WHO 	
World Health Organization 
WP  
IDF Western Pacific Region 
Y 
YLD 	
Young Leaders in Diabetes
118  |  IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org


=== PAGE 124 ===
Glossary
A 
Age-adjusted comparative prevalence 
Also referred to as comparative prevalence, this is 
the prevalence calculated by adjusting to the age 
structure of a standard population. In this IDF Diabetes 
Atlas, the standard population is the UN population in 
2021, 2030 or 2045. Adjusting rates is a way to make 
fairer comparisons between groups with different 
distributions. Age-adjusted rates are rates that would 
have existed if the population under study had the 
same age distribution as the “standard” population. 
Analytical hierarchy process (AHP) scoring 
A methodological approach that quantifies the relative 
value of a variety of different aspects of study methods. 
Attributable fraction method 
The contribution of a risk factor to a disease is 
measured using the population attributable  
fraction (PAF). The PAF is the proportional reduction  
in population disease that would occur if exposure to  
a risk factor was removed from the population.
Autoimmune reaction 
A reaction that is characterised by a specific humoral 
or cell-mediated immune response against the 
constituents of the body’s own tissues.
B 
Beta cells 
Cells found in the pancreas that produce, store and 
release insulin.
Body mass index (BMI) 
A measure of weight (or body mass), which is 
approximately independent of height. It is calculated 
by dividing weight in kilograms by the square of  
height in metres. The units are kilograms per  
square metre (kg/m2).
C 
Cardiovascular diseases (CVD) 
Diseases and injuries of the circulatory system: the 
heart, blood vessels of the heart and the system of 
blood vessels throughout the body and to (and in) 
the brain; generally, refers to conditions that involve 
narrowed or blocked blood vessels. 
D
Dementia
A progressive condition (such as Alzheimer’s disease) 
marked by the development of multiple cognitive 
deficits (such as memory impairment, aphasia, and  
the inability to plan and initiate complex behaviour).
Diabetes complications 
Acute and chronic conditions caused by diabetes. 
Diabetic foot
A foot that exhibits any disease that results directly 
from diabetes or a complication of diabetes. 
Diabetes in pregnancy (DIP) 
Diabetes occurring in pregnancy in women who have 
previously been diagnosed with diabetes or those who 
have hyperglycaemia first diagnosed during pregnancy, 
meeting the WHO criteria of diabetes in  
the non-pregnant state.
Diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA) 
A complex metabolic disorder that occurs when the 
liver starts breaking down fat at an excessive rate.  
The by-product of this process, ketones, can cause  
the blood to become dangerously acidic.
Diabetes (mellitus) 
A chronic condition marked by high concentrations of 
glucose (sugar) in the blood. It is caused by the body 
being unable to produce insulin (a hormone made by 
the pancreas to control blood glucose levels) or to use 
insulin effectively, or both. The three most common 
forms of diabetes are type 1, type 2 and gestational.
Diabetic neuropathy 
A type of nerve damage that can occur if a person  
has diabetes; depending on the affected nerves, 
symptoms of diabetic neuropathy can range from  
pain and numbness in the legs and feet to problems 
with the digestive system, urinary tract, blood vessels, 
and heart.
Direct costs 
The costs of providing, for a given condition or  
disease, health services (preventive and curative), 
family planning activities, nutrition activities and 
emergency aid designated for health. It does not 
include the provision of water and sanitation, but it 
does include health expenditures from both public  
and private sources.
DPP-4 inhibitors 
A class of oral hypoglycaemic drugs that blocks the 
enzyme dipeptidyl peptidase4 (DPP-4), used to  
treat type 2 diabetes. 
IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org  |  119 


=== PAGE 125 ===
E
Epidemiology
The study of the occurrence, distribution and  
patterns of disease in populations, including factors 
that influence disease and the application of this 
knowledge to improve public health. 
Essential hormone 
Hormones that are required for life including: insulin, 
parathyroid hormone, glucocorticosteroids (cortisol), 
mineral corticosteroids (aldosterone). 
Estimates 
Values that are usable for some purpose even if input 
data may be incomplete, uncertain, or unstable; the 
value is nonetheless usable because it is derived  
from the best information available. 
Extrapolate 
Extending values or conclusions from a known 
situation to an unknown situation, assuming that 
similar conditions, methods or trends are applicable.
F 
Fasting plasma glucose (FPG)
FPG is a person’s blood glucose concentration after 
fasting – not eating anything for at least eight hours. 
Normal FPG is less than or equal to 6.1 millimoles per 
litre (mmol/l) or less than or equal to 110 milligrams 
per decilitre (mg/dL). The disadvantages of using 
FPG for screening include: the possibility that the 
person has not fasted, its inability to detect diabetes 
diagnosed by a post-glucose load value alone and the 
fact that FPG alone cannot identify impaired glucose 
tolerance (see letter I). FPG alone fails to detect 
approximately 30% of undiagnosed diabetes. Using 
FPG to detect diabetes is a common but less sensitive 
diagnostic method. G Genes The basic physical and 
functional units of heredity found in the nuclei of  
all cells. 
G 
Gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) 
Gestational diabetes is a condition where a woman 
develops high blood glucose, less than overt diabetes, 
that begins in, or is first recognised during pregnancy. 
Glucagon 
A hormone produced in the pancreas. If blood glucose 
levels decrease, it triggers the body to release stored 
glucose into the bloodstream. 
Glucagon-like peptide1 
Also known as GLP-1, a naturally occurring peptide 
hormone, released from the gut after eating. Glucose 
Also called dextrose or blood sugar. The main sugar 
the body absorbs, uses as a form of energy and stores 
for future use. Glucose is the major source of energy 
for living cells and is carried to each cell through the 
bloodstream. However, the cells cannot use glucose 
without the action of insulin.
H 
Haemoglobin A1c (HbA1c) 
Also referred to as glycosylated haemoglobin,  
a haemoglobin to which glucose is bound.  
Glycosylated haemoglobin is measured to  
determine the average level of blood glucose  
over the past two to three months. 
Heterogeneity 
The quality or state of being diverse in character  
or content.
High-income country 
A country defined by the World Bank to have a gross 
national income per capita of USD 12,696 or more  
(in 2020). 
Hyperglycaemia 
A raised concentration of glucose in the blood. It occurs 
when the body does not have enough insulin or cannot 
use the insulin it does have to turn glucose into energy. 
Signs of hyperglycaemia include great thirst, dry 
mouth, weight loss and the need to urinate often.
Hyperglycaemia in pregnancy (HIP) 
Hyperglycaemia in pregnancy (HIP) can be classified as 
either gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) or diabetes 
in pregnancy (DIP). 
Hypoglycaemia
A low concentration of glucose in the blood. This may 
occur when a person with diabetes has injected too 
much insulin, eaten too little food, or has exercised 
without extra food. 
Glossary
120  |  IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org


=== PAGE 126 ===
I 
IDF Region 
The International Diabetes Federation (IDF) is divided 
into seven regions: Africa, Europe, Middle East and 
North Africa, North America and the Caribbean, South 
and Central America, South-East Asia and Western 
Pacific. The IDF Regions aim to strengthen the work 
of national diabetes associations and enhance 
collaboration between them.
Impaired fasting glucose (IFG) 
Blood glucose that is higher than normal blood 
glucose, but below the diagnostic threshold for 
diabetes after fasting (typically after an overnight fast). 
Sometimes termed impaired fasting glycaemia.
Impaired glucose tolerance (IGT) 
Blood glucose that is higher than normal but below 
the diagnostic threshold for diabetes, after ingesting 
a standard amount of glucose during an oral glucose 
tolerance test. Fasting and two-hour glucose values  
are needed for its diagnosis. 
Incidence 
The number of new cases of a disease or condition 
among a group of people without the disease who are 
at risk of developing this condition during a specified 
time period. 
Insulin 
A hormone produced in the pancreas, as a response to 
glucose. Insulin triggers cells to take up glucose from 
the blood stream and convert it to energy.
 Insulin resistance
The inability of cells to adequately respond to 
circulating insulin, resulting in increased levels of  
blood glucose. 
Intermediate hyperglycaemia 
The condition of raised blood glucose levels above 
the normal range and below the diabetes diagnostic 
threshold. Alternative terms are prediabetes,  
non-diabetic hyperglycaemia, IFG and IGT. 
International Dollar (ID) 
A hypothetical unit of currency that has the same 
purchasing power in every country. Conversions from 
local currencies to international dollars are calculated 
using tables of purchasing power parities, taken from 
studies of prices for the same basket of goods and 
services in different countries. Internationals Dollars 
are used to compare expenditures between different 
countries or regions.
L
Low-income country 
A country defined by the World Bank with a gross 
national income per capita of USD 1,045 or less  
(in 2020). 
M
Macrosomia 
Birth weight more than 4.0 kg Maturity-onset diabetes 
of the young (MODY) A group of rare forms of diabetes 
caused by one of several single gene mutations, 
belonging to the monogenic types of diabetes. 
Metformin 
An oral therapy for type 2 diabetes, and one of a 
group of drugs known as biguanides. These lower 
blood glucose levels in people with type 2 diabetes by 
increasing the sensitivity of muscle cells to insulin,  
and by reducing the amount of glucose produced  
by the liver. 
Microvascular complications 
Complications of diabetes that include diabetic 
nephropathy, neuropathy and retinopathy, which  
are caused by pathological changes in  
the microvasculature. 
Monogenic diabetes 
Less common types of diabetes, resulting from  
single genetic mutations. Examples include MODY  
and Neonatal Diabetes Mellitus.
N 
Neonatal diabetes mellitus 
A rare form of diabetes that is diagnosed in children 
under six months of age. Caused by a mutation in  
a single gene. It is a type of monogenic diabetes.
IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org  |  121 


=== PAGE 127 ===
Glossary
O
Obesity 
A condition in which a person carries excess weight or 
body fat that might affect their health (Defined by, for 
example, a BMI ≥30 Kg/m2 in non-Asians). 
Oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) 
A medical test in which glucose is given orally after an 
overnight fast and blood samples taken after a certain 
time to determine how quickly it is cleared from  
the blood. 
Oral medication 
A medication administered by mouth. 
Overweight 
A condition of having more body fat than is optimally 
healthy, though not in the obese range (Defined by a 
BMI of 25.0 Kg/m2 to 29.9 Kg/m2 in non-Asians). 
P 
Pancreas 
An organ situated behind the stomach, which  
produces several important hormones, including 
insulin and glucagon. 
Peripheral vascular disease (PVD) or peripheral 
artery disease (PAD) 
A progressive disorder that causes narrowing or 
blocking of the blood vessels outside the heart, 
including arteries, veins, or lymphatic vessels. 
Prediabetes 
Elevated blood glucose above the normal range but 
below the diabetes diagnostic threshold. Alternative 
terms are IFG, IGT, non-diabetic hyperglycaemia, and 
intermediate hyperglycaemia. 
Polydipsia 
Excessive thirst. 
Polyuria 
Frequent urination. 
Prevalence 
The proportion of individuals in a population that has 
a disease or condition at a particular time (a point 
in time or over a period of time). For example, the 
proportion of adults aged 20–79 with diabetes in 2017. 
For prevalence, the numerator is the number of people 
with the condition or disease and the denominator 
is the total population. It can be expressed as a 
proportion or a percentage. 
Primary prevention 
Disease prevention before a disease or condition 
occurs. Usually refers to the prevention of exposures 
to hazards that cause disease or injury and altering 
unhealthy or unsafe behaviours. 
Projections 
Estimates of a future situation based on a study of past 
and present trends. 
R 
Ratio 
The diabetes cost ratio, which is the ratio of health 
expenditures for people with diabetes compared 
to health expenditures for age and sex matched 
persons who do not have diabetes. The R=2 estimates 
assume that healthcare expenditures for people with 
diabetes are on average two-fold higher than people 
without diabetes, and the R=3 estimate assumes that 
healthcare expenditures for people with diabetes  
are on average three-fold higher than people  
without diabetes. 
Raw diabetes prevalence 
Also called country, national or regional prevalence, the 
percentage of each country or region’s population that 
has diabetes. It is useful for assessing the impact of 
diabetes for each country or region. 
Relative risk 
The ratio of the probability of an outcome in an 
exposed group to the probability of an outcome in an 
unexposed group. 
S 
Screening approach 
A method used to make a diagnosis of a given disease 
or condition before it has caused symptoms.
Secondary diabetes 
Less common forms of diabetes, which arise as a 
consequence of other diseases or conditions (e.g. 
diseases of the pancreas such as cystic fibrosis). 
Self-management 
Management of or by oneself; the taking of 
responsibility for one’s own behaviour and well-being. 
Sulphonylureas 
Oral medications used for the treatment of type 2 
diabetes. They work mainly by stimulating the cells in 
the pancreas to release more insulin. 
122  |  IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org


=== PAGE 128 ===
T 
Type 1 diabetes 
Type1 diabetes is thought to be an autoimmune 
disease that usually occurs in childhood or early 
adulthood, resulting in the inability to produce enough 
insulin due to the destruction of insulin producing islet 
cells in the pancreas. The condition can affect people  
of any age, but onset usually occurs in children or 
young people. 
Type 2 diabetes 
Type 2 diabetes is the most common form of diabetes 
and is characterised by high blood glucose, called 
hyperglycaemia. In people with type 2 diabetes, the 
body does not use the hormone insulin properly or 
cannot produce enough insulin, or both which in turn 
leads to hyperglycaemia. It is potentially preventable 
and is often associated with lifestyle factors such as 
insufficient physical activity, unhealthy diet, obesity 
and tobacco smoking. Risk is also associated with 
genetic and family-related factors. Type 2 diabetes is 
much more common than type 1 and occurs mainly in 
adults, although it is now also increasingly diagnosed 
in children and young people.
U 
Universal health coverage (UHC) 
Universal healthcare coverage, also referred to as 
universal coverage or universal care, is a healthcare 
system that provides free healthcare at the point of 
delivery to all residents of a particular country  
or region. 
IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org  |  123 


=== PAGE 129 ===
Figures
Figure 1 Estimates and projections of the global 
prevalence of diabetes in the 20–79 year age group  
in millions (IDF Diabetes Atlas editions 1st to 11th).
Figure 1.1 Diagnostic criteria for diabetes.
Figure 1.2 The typical symptoms of type 1 diabetes.
Figure 1.3. Other specific types of diabetes.
Figure 2.1 Classification of diabetes data sources.
Figure 3.1 Estimated numbers of people with diabetes 
(top panel) and estimated world-standardised prevalence 
of diabetes (bottom panel) in adults (20–79 years) by age 
group in 2024 and 2050.
Figure 3.2 Prevalence of diabetes among men and 
women (20–79 years), 2024.
Figure 3.3 Number of adults (20–79 years) with diabetes 
living in urban and rural areas in 2024 and 2050.
Figure 3.4 Reported prevalence of HbA1c between 5.7 
to 6.4%. Label includes the country, study year, and age 
range of the study participants.
Figure 3.5 Prevalence of hyperglycaemia in pregnancy by 
age-group in 2024.
Figure 3.6 Estimated number of deaths due to diabetes 
in adults (20–79 years), by age and sex in 2024.
Figure 3.7 Total diabetes-related health expenditure for 
adults (20–79 years) with diabetes from 2006 to 2050.
Figure 3.8 Total diabetes-related health expenditure  
(USD billion) in adults with diabetes (20–79 years) by  
IDF Region in 2024.
Figure 3.9 Diabetes-related health expenditure (USD) per 
adult with diabetes (20–79 years) by IDF Region in 2024.
Figure 3.10 Diabetes-related health expenditure as  
a percentage of total health expenditure for adults  
(20–79 years) with diabetes by IDF Region in 2024.
Figure 3.11 Diabetes-related health expenditure as a 
percentage of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) by IDF 
region in 2024.
Figure 3.12 Diabetes-related health expenditure as a 
percentage of Gross Domestic Product (GDP) by World 
Bank income classification, 2024.
Figure 3.13 Number of individuals with type 1 diabetes in 
each world region in 2024.
Figure 4.1 Estimated prevalence (%) of diabetes by age 
and sex, IDF Africa Region 2024.
Figure 4.2 Estimated prevalence (%) of diabetes by age 
and sex, IDF Europe Region 2024.
Figure 4.3 Estimated prevalence (%) of diabetes by age 
and sex, Middle-East and North Africa Region 2024.
Figure 4.4 Estimated prevalence (%) of diabetes by age 
and sex, IDF North America and Caribbean Region 2024.
Figure 4.5 Estimated prevalence (%) of diabetes by age 
and sex, IDF South and Central America Region 2024.
Figure 4.6 Estimated prevalence (%) of diabetes by age 
and sex, IDF South-East Asia Region 2024.
Figure 4.7 Estimated prevalence (%) of diabetes by age 
and sex, IDF Western Pacific Region 2024.
Figure 5.1 Meta-analysis of the incidence risk of 
atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease, stroke, myocardial 
infarction, and heart failure in people with type 2 
diabetes versus those without diabetes.
Figure 5.2 Relative risks of dementia in midlife, late life 
and combined age ranges.
Figure 5.3 Relative risk of vascular dementia (VaD), 
Alzheimer’s disease (AD) and all-cause dementia in 
people with diabetes.
Figure 5.4 The overall global prevalence of any DR  
per IDF Regions in 2019 and 2024.
Maps
Map 1 Number of people with diabetes worldwide  
and per IDF Region, in 2024–2050 (20–79 years).
Map 2.1 Countries and territories with in-country data 
sources on diabetes.
Map 2.2 Countries and territories with data sources on 
the proportion of adults (20–79 years) with previously 
undiagnosed diabetes.
Map 2.3 Countries and territories with selected data 
sources on impaired glucose tolerance of adults 
(20–79 years).
Map 2.4 Countries and territories with selected data 
sources on impaired fasting glucose of adults 
(20–79 years).
Map 2.5 Countries and territories with selected data 
sources on hyperglycaemia in pregnancy in adults 
(20–49 years).
Map 3.1 Estimated number of adults (20–79 years) with 
diabetes by country, 2024.
Map 3.2 Estimated age-standardised country prevalence 
of diabetes in adults (20–79 years), 2024.
Map 3.3 Number of people over 65 with diabetes in 2024.
Map 3.4 Proportion of adults (20–79 years) with 
undiagnosed diabetes by country in 2024.
Map 3.5 Age-standardised prevalence of impaired 
glucose tolerance in adults in 2024.
124  |  IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org


=== PAGE 130 ===
Map 3.6 Age-standardised prevalence of impaired fasting 
glucose in adults in 2024.
Map 3.7 Proportion of total deaths related to diabetes 
among adults (20-79 years) in 2024.
Map 3.8 Total diabetes-related health expenditure (USD) 
by country for adults (20–79 years) with diabetes in 2024.
Map 3.9 Diabetes-related health expenditure (USD) by 
country per adult (20–79 years) with diabetes in 2024.
Map 3.10 Remaining life expectancy of a 10-year-old child 
diagnosed with type 1 diabetes in 2024.
Map 4.1 Age-standardised prevalence (%) of diabetes 
(20–79 years), IDF Africa Region 2024.
Map 4.2 Age-standardised prevalence (%) of diabetes 
(20–79 years), IDF Europe Region 2024.
Map 4.3 Age-standardised prevalence (%) of diabetes 
(20–79 years), IDF Middle-East and North Africa  
Region 2024.
Map 4.4 Age-standardised prevalence (%) of diabetes 
(20–79 years), IDF North America and Caribbean  
Region 2024.
Map 4.5 Age-standardised prevalence (%) of diabetes 
(20–79 years), IDF South and Central America  
Region 2024.
Map 4.6 Age-standardised prevalence (%) of diabetes 
(20–79 years), IDF South-East Asia Region 2024.
Map 4.7 Age-standardised prevalence (%) of diabetes 
(20–79 years), IDF Western Pacific Region 2024.
Map 5.1 The proportion of dementia cases in the 
population attributed to diabetes, in 2024.
Map 5.2 The proportion of dementia cases in the 
population attributed to diabetes, in 2050.
Tables
Table 1.1 Diagnostic criteria in studies used for 
estimating hyperglycaemia in pregnancy.
Table 3.1 Global estimates of key aspects of diabetes, 
intermediate hyperglycaemia, and hyperglycaemia in 
pregnancy in 2024 and 2050.
Table 3.2 Number of adults (20–79 years) with diabetes 
and diabetes prevalence for countries grouped by World 
Bank income classification, 2024 and 2050.
Table 3.3 Number and world-standardised prevalence of 
diabetes in adults (20–79 years) in the world and in IDF 
Regions, 2024 and 2050, ranked by the 2024  
world-standardised prevalence.
Table 3.4 Top 10 countries or territories by number of 
adults (20–79 years) with diabetes in 2024 and 2050.
Table 3.5 Top 10 countries or territories with  
age-standardised diabetes prevalence in adults  
(20–79 years) in 2024 and 2050.
Table 3.6 Global diabetes estimates in people  
(65-99 years) in 2024 and 2050.
Table 3.7 Diabetes age-standardised prevalence in 
people (65-99 years) by IDF Region in 2024 and 2050.
Table 3.8 Top 10 countries or territories by number of 
adults (65-99 years) with diabetes in 2024 and 2050.
Table 3.9 Adults (20–79 years) with undiagnosed 
diabetes by World Bank income classification in 2024.
Table 3.10 Adults (20–79 years) with undiagnosed 
diabetes in IDF Regions in 2024, sorted by proportion 
undiagnosed from highest to lowest.
Table 3.11 Top 10 countries with the largest number of 
adults (20–79 years) with undiagnosed diabetes in 2024.
Table 3.12 Age-standardised prevalence of impaired 
glucose tolerance (20–79 years) by IDF regions, ranked 
by 2024 prevalence (%).
Table 3.13 Age-standardised prevalence of impaired 
glucose tolerance in adults (20–79 years), by World Bank 
income group classification.
Table 3.14 Age-standardised prevalence of impaired 
fasting glucose in adults (20–79 years) by IDF regions, 
ranked by 2024 prevalence (%).
Table 3.15 Age-standardised prevalence of impaired 
fasting glucose in adults (20–79 years), by World Bank 
income classification.
Table 3.16 Global estimates of hyperglycaemia in 
pregnancy in 2024.
Table 3.17 Hyperglycaemia in pregnancy (20–49 years) 
by IDF Region, ranked by 2024 age-standardised 
prevalence estimates.
Table 3.18 Ten countries or territories with the highest 
and lowest total health expenditure (USD) in adults 
(20–79 years) due to diabetes in 2024.
Table 3.19 Ten countries or territories with the highest 
and lowest diabetes-related health expenditure (USD) 
per person with diabetes (20–79 years) in 2024.
Table 3.20 Countries with the highest number of people 
living with T1D in 2024.
Table 5.1 Prevalence the any diabetes-related 
retinopathy and sight threatening diabetes-related 
retinopathy within the IDF Regions in 2024.
Table 5.2 Prevalence the proliferative diabetes-related 
retinopathy and macular oedema within IDF Regions  
in 2024.
IDF Diabetes Atlas 11th Edition - 2025 | diabetesatlas.org  |  125 


=== PAGE 131 ===
International Diabetes Federation 
Avenue Herrmann-Debroux 54 
B-1160 Brussels, Belgium
info@idf.org 
idf.org
